
According to the Chinese zodiac, 2018 is Year of the Dog — a calendar creature we can truly get behind.
Chinese New Year begins on Friday, Feb. 18, with two weeks of celebrations around the globe. 
So, to celebrate the coming of a canine year, why not watch a film that runs on four legs? We've got to wait until March for the release of Wes Anderson's Isle of Dogs, but there's still plenty of high-quality pooch cinema to watch. 
SEE ALSO: Every glorious moment Benji appears in Netflix's new 'Benji' trailer
Whether you have your own four-legged friend or are just looking to live vicariously through one's adventures, these films are a special treat.
1. Red Dog


"Sometimes you pick your dog, sometimes your dog picks you." An Australian legend, this freewheelin' pooch scampers about the outback bringing love and tomfoolery to a rough-as-guts iron ore mining community. Starring Jessica Jones' Rachael Taylor, 2011's Red Dog is based on a Louis de Bernieres novel — but also inspired by a real kelpie cross who scampered about Western Australia in the '70s. There's a sequel, Red Dog: True Blue, if you're keen. 
Prime dog moment: Smashing a tin of Pedigree food in record time.
2. Turner & Hooch


Dogs are constantly proven better detectives than humans in film, and 1989's Turner & Hooch makes short work of this. Starring a young Tom Hanks and a Dogue de Bordeaux called Beasley, this odd-couple slapstick detective comedy takes full advantage of slow motion and slobbery jowls. If you're keen to make a full dog buddy cop evening of it, hit up K-9 too.
Prime dog moment: The muffin scene.
3. Frankenweenie


Tim Burton's Frankenstein-inspired film, based on his 1984 short live-action film, is essentially a story about a boy and his dog. Anyone who's lost a dog will empathize with Victor, who brings his best friend back to life, to chaotic consequences.
Prime dog moment: The poodle Bride of Frankenweenie.
4. Lady and the Tramp


It's West Side Story. It's Romeo and Juliet. It's The O.C. Disney's 1955 animated classic not only features two dogs going on an opulent date at an Italian restaurant, but sports a most excellent voiceover by American jazz legend Peggy Lee, who's the smoothest pup the pound's ever seen. If you're looking to make a marathon of the animated pup genre, line up 101 Dalmations, Balto or Bolt.
Prime dog moment: When Lady gets her license. Emotions. 
5. Fluke


This is as midday movie as it gets. 1995's Fluke is the story of a father reincarnated as a dog with ample flashbacks. A workaholic is killed in a car accident and brought back as some kind of retriever, drops by his family home Mrs. Doubtfire style and attempts to protect them from the evil dude who caused his accident. If the movie has made you incredibly sad (and it will, seriously), chase this one with Beethoven or Air Bud.
Prime dog moment: The pure, pure friendship between the Bernese Mountain Dog and Fluke.
5. Benji


Benji, scruffy solver of crimes, quasher of kidnappings, sniffer of butts, is coming to Netflix, so it's time to rewatch the original before it drops. Created by Joe Camp (whose son Brandon Camp is directing the reboot), 1974's Benji features some highly impressive dog acting and stuntwork.
Prime dog moment: Every time Benji "talks."
6. Homeward Bound: The Incredible Journey


Sassy, Chance and Shadow currently boast 87 percent on Rotten Tomatoes. In this 1993 family classic, three pets are abandoned at a beautiful pet sitters' ranch by their vacationing family, the highly responsible Seavers. A golden retriever, an American bulldog and a cat will have to stick together if they're gonna get home and boy, do they go on an incredible journey. Turns out the woods contain bears.
Prime dog moment: When Shadow gets stuck down that hole, oh man. 
Honourable mention: 'Metalhead' from Black Mirror


Dogs. Run.

WATCH: Boston Dynamics robot has nailed a craft that has evaded many of its predecessors – door handles


