
The most undeniable part of Outlander is the powerful chemistry between its two leads, burning with the passion of a thousand fierce highland warriors fighting for their independence. 
And it looks like it's been that way from the very beginning.
A video of the first ever "chemistry read" between Sam Heughan (Jaime Fraiser) and Caitriona Balfe (Claire Beachum) was released just in time for Valentine's Day. Even when their fabulous costumes are replaced by flannel and they've got a sterile white room for background instead of gorgeous Scottish scenery, the spark between the two is enough to light a fire that will melt your heart.
SEE ALSO: Shipwrecked souls: Behind the scenes of Outlander's Season 3 finale
Before showing the clip, executive producer Ronald D. Moore explained that at the time they'd already cast Heughan, but were looking for their perfect Claire. They were almost positive they found her in Balfe, but needed to see one last chemistry test between them before sealing the deal.
And, clearly, the rest was history.

"As you see, they've already got the shorthand of their characters and there is definitely on-camera chemistry between the two," he said. But,"after the scene is over, we just kind of kept the tape running a little bit. We just wanted to see them a little bit more relaxed and sort of interacting. You can see that they're sort of awkwardly aware that the camera is still running, but nonetheless, there is enough spontaneity and genuine affection and good humor between the two of them that spoke volumes about their potential relationship."
You can say that again. Fans will recognize this as the heart-wrenching scene from Episode 9 of Season 1. And, I mean, their "awkward" affection is pretty much guaranteed to be sexier than anything you and your SO have planned for Valentines Day.
But don't feel bad. It's hard to compete with a love spans across centuries, continents, and cultural differences. We can't all be someone's sassinak :(

WATCH: It’s all about the sex: A breakdown of the ‘Game of Thrones’ books vs. series


