  The Women’s Voices Theater Festival isn’t obligated to present political rabble-rousing plays, even though it’s an aggressive social justice project aimed at correcting the maddening imbalance tilting the entire U.S. field toward scripts by men by more than four to one. Still, if it needs a ferocious feminist tip of the spear, it’s getting one from the small Brave Spirits Theatre. The troupe’s company-devised “Trojan Women Project” is a rambling cry that’s slightly Greek and fully Trump-era. In a converted church space not far from Shirlington’s Signature Theatre, an ensemble of 12 women and one non-binary person in solid-colored loose-fitting dresses winds among an audience that’s grouped in twos and threes. It’s a choreopoem, to use Ntzoke Shange’s “for colored girls” term, riffing on the shock of the 2016 election and the fissures still dividing seemingly everything — country, neighbors, women.  [Second Women’s Voices festival arrives in #MeToo moment]  It’s an experiment that takes only what it needs from the Euripides drama of Trojan women raging about their postwar fate. Occasionally the group moves and even sings as a chorus, but the show is marked by breakout conversations about Hillary, gentrification and race. When it’s cooking, the piece goes beyond the expected liberal line and cogently articulates the opposite view. Older women gripe about young ones, and established neighborhood residents bristle at upscale intrusion. Nicole Ruthmarie plays a Cassandra-like figure who ferociously debates Renea S. Brown, who has the role of a conservative D.C. beauty queen named Reagan. This debate between black women about their most effective role is not neatly resolved. If the show sometimes feels like tidy arguments between warring pundits, it also falls easily into the protagonist/antagonist dialogue of Greek drama. The performance wraps its arms around a compendium of issues from rape to voting; it gives you slice-of-life conversations, dance interludes and then a whole new set of concerns, maybe in a soliloquy or a demonstration with an audience volunteer. Not surprisingly, it has a hard time finding its ending, even as it rallies around last year’s Women’s March. But its stylistic focus and controlled anger give it a very live edge. “The Trojan Women Project” opens with the idea of excavating history, which is the subject of the Kennedy Center’s sprightly Women’s Voices, and theater for young audiences, show “Digging Up Dessa.” Laura Schellhardt’s hour-long story deals with a schoolgirl coping with the loss of her father. In her grief, the science-minded kid (played by the entirely likable Alina Collins Maldonado) is visited by the ghost of 19th-century paleontologist Mary Anning (Jackie Renee’ Robinson, in a formidable Mary Poppins mode).    From left: Chris Stinson, Alina Collins Maldonado and Jackie Renee’ Robinson in the Kennedy Center's “Digging Up Dessa.” (Yassine El Mansouri)  This handsome, funny show also features brief amusing jingles by Deborah Wicks La Puma for the girl’s musical mother (Alyssa Wilmoth Keegan); it’s for kids who can follow along with dialogue about “toppling the patriarchy” and lessons discriminating between fact and hyperbole. It’s perfectly fine, but you wonder if the Kennedy Center could have opened one of its bigger stages, too, for a Women’s Voices project. The 24-show festival is two-thirds done, and it could use the thunder.   The Trojan Women Project, directed by Rachel Hynes, devised by Rachel Hynes with the company. Set, Brian Gillick; costumes, Kristina Martin; lights, Peter Caress. With Suzy Alden, Francesca Marie Chilcote, Lisa Hill-Corley, Karen Lange, Nancy Linden, Ruthie Rado, Diana Gonzalez Ramirez, Claire Schoonover, Ezra Tozian, Allison Turkel and Claudia Rosales Waters. About two hours. Through Feb. 25 at the Lab at Convergence, 1819 N. Quaker Lane, Alexandria. Tickets $20. Visit bravespiritstheatre.com.    Digging Up Dessa, by Laura Schellhardt. Directed by Rives Collins. Set, Deb Booth; lights, Martha Mountain; costumes, Jen Gillette; projections, Patrick Lord; sound design, Kenny Neal. With Chris Stinson. Through Feb. 18 at the Kennedy Center’s Family Theater. Tickets $20. Call 202-467-4600 or visit kennedy-center.org.  