 If the theater gave out awards for public service, this year’s prize would already be decided. The winner is “Sovereignty,” Mary Kathryn Nagle’s placid, teachable-moment brand of drama about the U.S. government’s contentious, centuries-long relationship with Indian tribal rights. Offering up almost as much legal grounding as a Harvard Law School case study, “Sovereignty” would also make an apt entry on any American Studies syllabus. Now, the topic happens to be an interesting one to me — and dare I say it is an aspect of American history that you should know more about, too. So I was willing to forgive some of the emphatically pedagogical aspirations of this world premiere production, conjured with pristine conscientiousness by director Molly Smith in Arena Stage’s Kreeger Theater. Imagining the Kreeger as a classroom is indeed the surest path to a meaningful takeaway from this evening. “Sovereignty” fits into a variety of dramaturgy that Smith has sought to make an Arena specialty: an initiative she calls “power plays,” a 10-year program to put original pieces of public-affairs theater on the company’s stages. In the vein of the previous entries — Lawrence Wright’s “Camp David,” John Strand’s “The Originalist” and Jacqueline E. Lawton’s “Intelligence” — Nagle’s work zeros in on a facet of the exercise of federal power, in a way that reveals its effect on the governed, or on the people wielding the power. This is a worthwhile pursuit for a renowned company in the nation’s capital. Still, like the prior power plays, “Sovereignty” is more successful as an intellectual concept than heart-racing historical drama. Nagle’s characters, who are doled out attributes rather than imbued with personality, spend a lot of time explaining themselves, at the expense of the more satisfying kind of revelation that allows an audience to discover on its own who they are. As a result, the dramatic potential in exploring this original and provocative subject matter is not fully realized. And yet, I have to say the just over two hours in the Kreeger with “Sovereignty” did not feel misspent. The experience on this occasion had less to do with aesthetics than edification. How often do we get a play at a major theater, with Native American actors, by a Native American playwright? But whether these elements are enough to fulfill your requirements for an evening of theater, I leave to you.   As the title suggests, the play looks at the strictures and inequities the United States has imposed and perpetuated for Native American self-government. In this case, the focus is Nagle’s own Cherokee Nation, one of the tribes forced in the 19th century off its ancestral homeland in the Southeast and marched to territory in the Southwest, later to become the state of Oklahoma. “Sovereignty” travels back and forth between the 1830s and the “near future,” the linkage being the violent rivalry of two powerful Cherokee clans, the Rosses and the Ridges, and a sequence of Supreme Court battles going back two centuries. Those cases involve challenges to a tribe’s rights to enforce laws on its lands, and more specifically, the right to prosecute non-Indians for crimes committed within Indian-governed territory. It’s not until the start of Act 2, unfortunately, that the modern-day story of Sarah Polson (Kyla Garcia), a Yale-trained Cherokee lawyer who has come home to work for the tribe, gains some emotional traction. Her hotheaded, controlling white fiance, Ben (an excellent Joseph Carlson) commits an act of sexual violence that sets in motion still another constitutional case, and this is where “Sovereignty” starts to find its footing. Before this, the play lingers far too long in the 19th-century story of the Cherokee leaders, divided over whether to consent to efforts spearheaded by President Andrew Jackson (Carlson, again) to confiscate Cherokee land in Georgia and compel the tribe to relocate West. Several good actors double, triple or even quadruple in roles — including Jake Waid, Andrew Roa, Todd Scofield, Kalani Queypo, Dorea Schmidt, Michael Glenn and Jake Hart. Scofield makes the most of one turn in particular, as a white bartender in an Indian casino who gets perhaps the evening’s most impassioned declaration about Cherokee indefatigability. Garcia struggles a bit under the weight of the play’s most difficult assignment, conveying Sarah’s vulnerability while at the same time reciting for us reams of legal precedent. Waid, meanwhile, succeeds noteworthily as Sarah’s patient superior in the Cherokee attorney general’s office. Linda Cho’s costumes and Ken MacDonald’s set apply vivid textures and colors and do their best to leaven the proceedings, which might have felt much lighter had the playwright not believed she had so much explaining to do.   Sovereignty, by Mary Kathryn Nagle. Directed by Molly Smith. Set, Ken MacDonald; costumes, Linda Cho; lighting, Robert Wierzel; sound, Ed Littlefield; projections, Mark Holthusen; wigs, Jon Aitchison; fight direction, Lewis Shaw. About 2 hours and 15 minutes. $56-$91. Through Feb. 18 at Arena Stage, 1101 Sixth St. SW. Visit arenastage.org or call 202-488-3300.  