

 



Majority Leader Mitch McConnell    (R-Ky.) teed up votes on a slate of immigration proposals on Wednesday, as he tries to break a logjam that has held the chamber's debate in a days-long limbo. McConnell filed cloture on four amendments: A proposal from Sens. John McCain    (R-Ariz.) and Christopher Coons    (D-Del.) that deals with "Dreamers" and border security; a measure from Sen. Pat Toomey    (R-Pa.) cracking down on "sanctuary cities"; a bipartisan immigration deal spearheaded by GOP Sen. Susan Collins    (Maine); and a GOP-only bill that mirrors President Trump   's framework.  Under the chamber's rules, the Senate could hold a procedural vote as soon as Friday morning unless they can get a deal to speed up their debate.  To overcome the initial hurdle, a proposal will need to get 60 votes — meaning it will need the support of both Republicans and Democrats. If an amendment fails to meet the supermajority threshold, senators are expected to move directly to an initial vote on the next amendment.  The floor action comes as the Senate's immigration debate has largely stalemated, with Democrats blocking McConnell from scheduling votes on Tuesday and uncertainty swirling about if any proposal will be able to pass the chamber this week.  Senate Minority Leader Charles Schumer    (D-N.Y.) said on Wednesday evening that the chamber is "closer than we have ever been" to passing a bill to help the Dreamers. The Collins group filed its proposal on Wednesday evening. It's expected to include a pathway to citizenship for 1.8 million immigrants, $25 billion in border security and limited changes to family-based immigration.Democrats, and some Republicans, had hoped the White House proposal would be the first to get a vote, a move that would allow them to shore up support for their alternatives. "You need to ask me that after the [GOP Sen. Chuck] Grassley bill falls short of 60, but the president deserves a vote ... I think the Senate doesn't want to be seen as failing, but time will tell,” Sen. Lindsey Graham    (R-S.C.), said when asked why the bipartisan group’s bill could pass. But McConnell's decision ensures that the White House plan will likely be the last immigration plan to be voted on. Sen. John Cornyn    (R-Texas) told reporters earlier that Republicans had already made the decision that their bill, spearheaded by Grassley (R-Iowa), would be the final amendment vote — raising the possibility of a take-it-or-leave it proposition. Grassley's bill, which mirrors the White House's plan, includes a pathway to citizenship for 1.8 million people, $25 billion in border security, tougher interior enforcement and new limits to legal immigration.  



