

 



Colorado Sens. Cory Gardner    (R) and Michael Bennet    (D) are pitching a bipartisan immigration compromise that includes a path to citizenship and money for President Trump   's border wall. The two senators filed an amendment on Wednesday as senators try to break a stalemate that is slowing the Senate's immigration debate.  The plan would provide a pathway to citizenship for "Dreamers" — undocumented immigrants brought into the country as children. It would also appropriate $25 billion in border security funding, including money for the U.S.-Mexico border wall.  "This legislation addresses [the Deferred Action for Childhood Arrivals program] and border security, and we are urging members on both sides of the aisle that want a solution to support our bipartisan approach to addressing our flawed immigration system," Gardner said in a statement.  Bennet added that the proposal is "the result of each side accepting some things they don't fully agree with." The amendment would also boost the number of immigration judges and includes voluntary E-Verify, a program used by employers to check an individual's immigration status.  The Department of Homeland Security slammed the proposal almost immediately, calling it the "Schumer bill." “Gardner-Bennett bill, AKA the Schumer bill, violates the framework, would legalize unlimited numbers through chain migration, and leaves deadly loopholes intact," said Katie Waldman, a DHS spokeswoman.  The plan is the latest bipartisan measure to come forward as Republican leaders look to wrap up the Senate's debate this week.  Members of a bipartisan group led by Sen. Susan Collins    (R-Maine) are also expected to unveil their agreement on Wednesday. Bennet and Gardner have both been a part of those negotiations.  Members of the group were tight-lipped leaving a Wednesday meeting about what their plan entailed, but Sen. Lindsey Graham    (R-S.C.) said it would only deal with a fix for the Deferred Action for Childhood Arrivals program and border security.  It's unclear if a narrower approach can pass the Senate, while House conservatives have warned its dead on arrival in their chamber.  President Trump formally threw his support behind a conservative bill, spearheaded by Senate Judiciary Committee Chairman Chuck Grassley    (R-Iowa) on Wednesday.  That measure largely mirrors the White House framework, including a path to citizenship for 1.8 million undocumented immigrants brought to the U.S. as children, $25 billion in border security, tougher interior enforcement and new limits on legal immigration.  But it's not expected to be able to win over 60 votes, despite the president's support.  



