The Golden Globe nominations were announced Monday morning, kicking off what looks to be a genuinely chaotic Oscar season with no discernible frontrunner for Best Picture. Several potential contenders featured prominently, including Steven Spielberg’s The Post, Martin McDonagh’s Three Billboards Outside Ebbing, Missouri, Guillermo del Toro’s The Shape of Water, Christopher Nolan’s Dunkirk, and Greta Gerwig’s Lady Bird. There was also a surprising slew of nominations for Ridley Scott’s upcoming drama All the Money in the World, which has been in the news largely because it went through drastic reshoots to replace Kevin Spacey with Christopher Plummer after the former was accused of sexual assault by multiple men.The Globes’ film nominations have significant bearing on the Oscar race despite the comparative anonymity of the 90-member Hollywood Foreign Press Association (who vote on the awards). The group also handed out a typically eclectic mix of television nominations, concentrating on buzzy favorites like Big Little Lies, This Is Us, and Stranger Things as well as brand new shows like SMILF, The Good Doctor, and The Marvelous Mrs. Maisel. The awards ceremony will be broadcast on NBC Sunday, January 7, and will be hosted by Seth Meyers.By a simple tally of nominations, the biggest winner was The Shape of Water, del Toro’s grown-up fairytale about a woman who falls in love with an amphibious being trapped in an underground lab. It got seven Globe nominations: Picture, Director, Screenplay, Score, Best Actress for Sally Hawkins, Best Supporting Actor for Richard Jenkins, and Best Supporting Actress for Octavia Spencer. Right behind it was the dark drama Three Billboards and the resolutely topical newspaper biopic The Post with six nominations apiece.The Post, which will be released in time for Christmas, has drawn attention for its present-day parallels, though it follows The Washington Post’s legal battle to publish the Pentagon Papers in 1971. The Globes clearly responded to the film’s message: Spielberg has pitched the movie, which he made with comparative speed, as a parable of the news media standing up to a bullying White House. It’s also a tale about the struggles of being a woman in a male-dominated boardroom (the story is centered on the Post publisher Katharine Graham, played by Meryl Streep). Meanwhile, the voters’ love for All the Money in the World, which got three nominations (Director, Best Actress, and Best Supporting Actor), may have been similarly inspired by the recent dramatic stories surrounding its production.