Dee Rees’s Mudbound opens in media res: Two sparring brothers, Jamie (Garrett Hedlund) and Henry McAllan (Jason Clarke), are trying to bury their father on their Mississippi farm by digging a grave during a rainstorm. The entire endeavor is tinged with futility, as the horrible weather seemingly mocks their efforts. While they struggle, the African American Jackson family rides by with all their possessions strapped to their buggy as if they’re fleeing the farm. Henry—who is white—sees them and asks the patriarch Hap Jackson (Rob Morgan) for help. Even with little context for the moment, viewers can tell from the look on Hap’s face and the ’40s period setting just how big a line Henry is crossing. It’s just as easy to see that, despite the quiet insult, Hap can’t decline.Mudbound, which debuted on Netflix and in limited theaters last weekend, is an old-fashioned epic drama about race relations in the 1940s Deep South, adapted from Hillary Jordan’s 2008 novel. The film touches on the evil of the Jim Crow era, the oft-ignored post-traumatic stress suffered by servicemen returning from World War II, and the stifling sexism of the time. Mudbound is beautifully shot, well-acted, and surprisingly sweeping for a movie with a relatively small budget of $10 million; if it’s guilty of anything, it’s perhaps trying to do too much at once, which is understandable given its novelistic scope.But Rees, whose debut fiction feature Pariah announced her impressive talent as a director in 2011, has a gift for smaller, multilayered moments, like Henry’s transgression in asking Hap to help bury his father. Even before the story gets underway, the audience can recognize how Henry is leveraging his institutional power over a black tenant living on his land. He can’t technically order Hap to assist him, but Henry is taking advantage of a terrible legacy of slavery and subjugation, one he’d never openly acknowledge.Before it explains what exactly drove the Jackson family from Henry’s land or what killed Henry’s father, Mudbound then cuts back to somewhat happier times. Even then, it’s obvious that darker days are around the corner. Henry purchases his Mississippi farm seemingly as a way to prove his worth, to live independently off the land with his wife Laura (Carey Mulligan) and their children. Hap is a tenant on Henry’s farm who dreams of buying his own land and living independently with his wife Florence (Mary J. Blige) and their kids. The two families’ daily work, digging through the caked mud to plant their crops, is strikingly similar, but there’s a vast gulf between them.