Before Louis C.K. said, late last week, that “these stories are true,” he said that the stories were lies. During a 2016 interview with New York magazine, which asked C.K. about rumors of sexual harassment that had been circulating around him for years: “I don’t care about that. That’s nothing to me. That’s not real.” During a 2017 interview with The New York Times, after the comedian Tig Notaro mentioned those rumors in a conversation with with The Daily Beast: “I don’t know why she said the things she’s said. … I don’t think talking about that stuff in the press and having conversations over press lanes is a good idea.” During that same interview: “I’m not going to answer to that stuff, because they’re rumors. If you actually participate in a rumor, you make it bigger and you make it real.”What’s striking, through the jaded lens of retrospect, is how well C.K.’s protests—Louis, the victim of salacious gossip; Louis, the indignant genius; Louis, the affable guy who would never—seemed to track. C.K., after all, dressed the part of an ally. “To many,” the writer Lindsey V. Thompson put it, “Louis C.K. was one of the good guys.” He was the one who was in the audience for Tig Notaro’s now-iconic “Hello, I Have Cancer” set—the one who tweeted and effused and insisted that the set be shared with the world, the one who helped make Notaro the thing she deserved to be all along: nationally famous. C.K. provided a similar career boost to Pamela Adlon: He cast her in both Lucky Louie and Louie, and then championed her show, Better Things—and served as, among other things, its co-creator. “I knew you could do it,” he told her at an event in late September, magnanimously.C.K.’s comedy, too, played the part. Under the guise of confessional grotesque—an unvarnished id, clad in a rumpled T-shirt and shuffling uncomfortably in the spotlight—C.K.’s act insisted that its performer was in on feminism’s jokes. (“Globally and historically, we’re the No. 1 cause of injury and mayhem to women. We’re the worst thing that ever happens to them.”) It was comedy, as my colleague David Sims put it, that conveniently served as a smoke screen. How, after all, could an act so shruggy and schlubby and slouchy and grouchy be anything but the truth? Why would the guy who talked so openly about his 4-year-old being an asshole lie about that other thing? And so Louis C.K. managed, for years, to pull off that tidiest of tricks: His character wrapped itself in layers of postmodern impunity. C.K. wasn’t just C.K.; he was the emblem of Men as a category, satirizing modern masculinity and, at the same time, sanitizing it. A little bit P. T. Barnum, a little bit Barney Gumble, he filled sweaty clubs and airy amphitheaters and TV screens the nation over with the promise that, joke by joke, he would reveal that rarest of spectacles: the feminist dirtbag.