The accusations against Kevin Spacey this past week have, among other things, presented a challenge of categorization. After the actor Anthony Rapp accused Spacey of making a sexual advance at him in 1986, when Rapp was 14, more men came forward to allege predatory behavior by the actor. There have been two other accounts of encounters with teenage boys in the ’80s. Eight House of Cards staffers told CNN they saw the star grope and harass crew members.Spacey has so far given a hedged apology to Rapp, denied one other allegation, and is reportedly now seeking “evaluation and treatment.” If the stories are true, do they simply add to the tally of Hollywood letches revealed since Harvey Weinstein was accused of sexual harassment and rape? Does this scandal require a discussion of homosexuality because Spacey came out as gay in his apology to Rapp? Or is the issue adults preying on minors?One of Spacey’s accusers, an unnamed 48-year-old artist, has his answer. “He is a pedophile,” the man told Vulture’s E. Alex Jung in a wide-ranging and disturbing interview published Thursday. The man says that when he was 14, he had an ongoing sexual relationship with the then-24-year-old rising actor. At first, the accuser was a consenting participant (or, as much as a minor can considered to be one), but he says the relationship ended when Spacey attempted to rape him. “Mr. Spacey absolutely denies the allegations,” a lawyer for the House of Cards actor told Vulture.It was Spacey’s hedged apology to Rapp, which included the line “I choose now to live as a gay man,” that pushed this particular accuser to finally come forward with his story: “He is spinning it, right? ‘Oh, people like gays now. ... I’ll say I’m gay and I will betray my whole community and do something else that conflates pedophilia with male homosexuality.” Taken with Rapp’s story and the testimony of another anonymous person in the entertainment business who says he woke up with Spacey on top of him when he was 17, the allegations seem to most urgently point to child molestation.That analysis is complicated by the other Spacey stories in which the age of consent wasn’t the problem—consent was. The crew members Spacey allegedly harassed during House of Cards were most likely adults. The director Tony Montana was in his 30s in 2003 when, he says, Spacey grabbed his crotch and followed him into the bathroom at a bar. A then-19-year-old U.K. bartender says Spacey flashed him in 2010. The actor Roberto Cavazos wrote on Facebook that Spacey, as the artistic director of The Old Vic theater in London from 2004 to 2015, “routinely preyed” on colleagues: “It seems the only requirement was to be a male under the age of 30 for Mr. Spacey to feel free to touch us,” Cavazos said.