This story contains spoilers for the plot of Suburbicon.When George Clooney first worked on Suburbicon, he was attached as an actor. His frequent collaborators, the Coen brothers, had cast him in the small role of a crafty insurance investigator in a dark 1950s comedy about a murder plot gone wrong. The project, planned in the mid-2000s, never came to fruition, and the Coens and Clooney moved on to other things (though they continued making movies together). Years later, Clooney and his writing partner Grant Heslov began early work on a film about the Myers—an African American family who moved into a postwar, suburban Pennsylvania community and faced harassment and violence from their white neighbors.“[We’re] hearing about scapegoating minorities and building fences and all those kinds of things. We always thought it was good to remind ourselves that these are not new elements,” Clooney told me about the genesis of the film, which he directed and which opened last weekend to poor reviews and low ticket sales. “We didn’t want it to be sort of preaching to the choir. It was more fun if you could put it in some form of entertainment. And I [remembered the Coen brothers] had written this film Suburbicon a long time ago.”That was the start of a project that, in its final form, feels somewhat baffling—a cross between a madcap comedy and a much more serious, historical examination of a horrifying moment in American history. Clooney’s Suburbicon, which he co-wrote with Heslov, retained much of the Coens’ original storyline (they also receive writing credits). The film follows a seemingly ordinary businessman, Gardner Lodge (Matt Damon), who conspires with his sister-in-law Margaret (Julianne Moore) to kill his wife Rose (also Moore) and collect on her life insurance. Much of the film is told through the eyes of his skeptical son, Nicky (Noah Jupe), who eventually figures out what is going on, as does the investigator, Bud Cooper (Oscar Isaac in the role originally intended for Clooney).But then there’s also the African American Mayers family (played by Leith M. Burke, Karimah Westbrook, and Tony Espinosa), who move into the community of Suburbicon. They’re tormented by their white neighbors, barred from shopping at local stores, and eventually see a mass riot outside their house. There’s some suggestion in the film that the Mayerses are being blamed for the crimes Gardner and Margaret are actually committing, but the connection is very loose, and Gardner seems unaware of the racial violence taking place in his neighborhood.