

 



Senate Majority Whip John Cornyn    (R-Texas) said on Tuesday that the "clock is ticking" for Democrats to offer a counterproposal in the Senate on immigration.In a response to a tweet from Sen. Dick Durbin   's (D-Ill.) communications director, the No. 2 Republican senator said he is "anxious to see" the Democratic counteroffer to a GOP bill on immigration.“But only deal was date and fair an[d] open process. Delivered as promised,” Cornyn tweeted on Tuesday. “Clock is ticking so I am anxious to see D counteroffer to POTUS’s proposal that can become law. None so far.” Touché, but who does?  But only deal was date and fair an open process. Delivered as promised.  Clock is ticking so I am anxious to see D counteroffer to POTUS’s proposal that can become law.  None so far. https://t.co/J7WrXrBmZK— Senator John Cornyn (@JohnCornyn) February 13, 2018Cornyn’s comments come after Senate Majority leader Mitch McConnell    (R-Ky.) signaled he will move to wrap up the Senate's immigration bill this week.Cornyn said the Senate needs to finish its immigration debate by Thursday.On Monday evening, senators voted to advance the immigration debate to the Senate floor. McConnell had promised a debate on immigration in order to get a spending deal in January but he has been careful not to commit to a solution on the pressing issue of renewing the Deferred Action for Childhood Arrivals (DACA) program.With the Senate expected to be out of town next week for Presidents Day, there is little time for the Senate to reach a deal before the initial March 5 deadline to find a fix for DACA.President Trump    has also been adamant about what he wishes to see in a proposal, making it harder for Republicans to compromise with Democrats' demands.Trump rescinded DACA, which protects from deportation certain immigrants who were brought here illegally as children, in September with a six-month delay, putting pressure on Congress to act to extend the program and prevent hundreds of thousands of immigrants from facing deportation.With the open Senate debate, any proposal that reaches 60 votes will be moved to the House. 



