When John Singleton—the groundbreaking filmmaker behind movies like Boyz n the Hood, and the first African American to get a Best Director Oscar nomination—first saw The Breakfast Club in 1985, he was reviewing it for his high-school newspaper. “The various characters were teenage archetypes, but they were rooted in genuine human problems,” he later said. “I didn’t feel alienated by the fact that they were all white kids. They were just teens finding their way into adulthood—like I was.”Six years later, Singleton made Boyz n the Hood, a teen drama about growing up in South Central Los Angeles; he cites the Breakfast Club writer-director John Hughes as a major influence. “He gave me a template,” Singleton has said, according to David Kamp’s essay in the new Criterion Collection release of the movie, which came out this month. Watching Hughes’s foundational tale of adolescent angst more than 30 years on, it’s easy to be put off by the homogeneity and privilege of its main characters: five suburban white kids in Chicago who spend the entire film fretting over their social status, overbearing parents, and existential fears. But The Breakfast Club undeniably laid the foundation for a whole new kind of teen drama—one motivated less by plot, and more by mood.When Hughes started production on The Breakfast Club in March 1984 with an indie-movie budget of $1 million (about $2.5 million adjusted for inflation), his debut feature Sixteen Candles wouldn’t even hit theaters for another two months. The teen film was, at that point, rooted more in sensationalism, with oversexed comedies like Losin’ It, Porky’s, and Risky Business dominating the genre. Even genuinely great movies like Amy Heckerling’s Fast Times at Ridgemont High had an emphasis on shock value (that film featured R-rated nudity and a hard-hitting abortion plotline).Sixteen Candles, a coming-of-age tale about a high-school sophomore (Molly Ringwald) coping with a crush and her chaotic family, was sort of a proto–Breakfast Club, with a simple story driven by deeper characterization. But it’s much more fizzy and action-packed than its successor, rife with slapstick comedy and some very broad, uncomfortable racial humor centered on the exchange-student character of Long Duk Dong (Gedde Watanabe). The Breakfast Club strips most of that excess away, locking five kids—a jock (Emilio Estevez), a nerd (Anthony Michael Hall), a princess (Ringwald), an outcast (Ally Sheedy), and a delinquent (Judd Nelson) in detention together and seeing what happens.