

 



 var _informq = _informq || []; _informq.push(['embed']);
Sen. Kirsten Gillibrand    (D-N.Y.) went after President Trump    on Saturday for his tweet questioning a lack of "due process" in abuse claims, saying that Congress could hold hearings about sexual misconduct allegations against him if he wanted due process.“The President has shown through words and actions that he doesn’t value women. It’s not surprising that he doesn’t believe survivors or understand the national conversation that is happening,” Gillibrand tweeted.“If he wants due process for the over dozen sexual assault allegations against him, let’s have Congressional hearings tomorrow,” she continued. “I would support that and my colleagues should too.”The President has shown through words and actions that he doesn’t value women. It’s not surprising that he doesn’t believe survivors or understand the national conversation that is happening.— Kirsten Gillibrand (@SenGillibrand) February 10, 2018The lives of survivors of sexual assault and domestic abuse are being shattered every day. If he wants due process for the over dozen sexual assault allegations against him, let’s have Congressional hearings tomorrow. I would support that and my colleagues should too.— Kirsten Gillibrand (@SenGillibrand) February 10, 2018Trump had raised concerns about due process in a tweet earlier Saturday, which came after two White House aides resigned amid allegations of past domestic abuse.White House staff secretary Rob Porter and speechwriter David Sorensen both resigned this week over the newly revealed allegations, claims that they have denied.Peoples lives are being shattered and destroyed by a mere allegation. Some are true and some are false. Some are old and some are new. There is no recovery for someone falsely accused - life and career are gone. Is there no such thing any longer as Due Process?— Donald J. Trump (@realDonaldTrump) February 10, 2018Trump has been accused of sexual misconduct by more than a dozen women. Female Democratic lawmakers called for Congress to investigate the claims against Trump last year, as did several of his accusers.The president attacked Gillibrand in a tweet late last year, saying she had begged him for donations and "would do anything for them."He made the comments after the senator had called for Trump to resign over the sexual misconduct allegations.Gillibrand hit back, saying Trump “cannot silence” her or other women who believe he has brought shame to the presidency. 



