

 



Sen. Patty Murray    (D-Wash.) on Saturday vowed to keep standing with women who are victims of sexual violence and harassment "even if the President won't.""Women's lives are upended every day by sexual violence and harassment," tweeted Murray, the No. 3 Senate Democrat and highest-ranking female senator."I'm going to keep standing with them, and trusting them, even if the President won't."Women's lives are upended every day by sexual violence and harassment. I'm going to keep standing with them, and trusting them, even if the President won't. - PM https://t.co/AEyAUX1i8v— Senator Patty Murray (@PattyMurray) February 10, 2018Her comments come after President Trump    earlier Saturday tweeted that people's lives are "being shattered and destroyed" by a "mere allegation" after two White House aides resigned following allegations of past domestic abuse."Peoples lives are being shattered and destroyed by a mere allegation. Some are true and some are false. Some are old and some are new," Trump wrote."There is no recovery for someone falsely accused - life and career are gone. Is there no such thing any longer as Due Process?"White House staff secretary Rob Porter resigned Wednesday after his two ex-wives came forward with allegations that he abused them physically and emotionally during their marriages.The Washington Post reported Friday that White House speechwriter David Sorensen had also resigned after his former wife said he was violent and emotionally abusive during their marriage. Sorensen denied the allegations, saying he was the abuse victim.Former Obama adviser David Axelrod also pushed back on Trump's comments on Saturday, saying people's lives are "being shattered and destroyed by domestic abuse and violence" and questioning why the president never has "a word for the victims."People’s lives are being shattered and destroyed by domestic abuse and violence. Why is it, Mr. @POTUS, that you never have a word for the victims? https://t.co/K10sbtaSKH— David Axelrod (@davidaxelrod) February 10, 2018  



