

 



A group of Democratic senators is asking the White House to provide details on the domestic abuse allegations against former White House staff secretary Rob Porter.In a letter to White House chief of staff John Kelly and White House counsel Don McGahn, a group of 12 Democrats led by Sen. Richard Blumenthal (D-Conn.) asked for information regarding other officials who have not yet obtained full security clearances.The letter came two days after Porter stepped down from his post following allegations that he physically and emotionally abused his two ex-wives and had not been granted a full security clearance despite serving in a position that required him to handle classified information. "We recognize that you and the President have tremendous discretion in deciding whom to hire to work in the White House," the Democratic letter reads."However, we are troubled by published accounts suggesting that you decided to hire Mr. Porter despite the fact that he could not get a security clearance and that you were aware of the specific domestic violence allegations made against him."In addition to Porter, why are “multiple aides” who have also been denied a security clearance allowed continued access to our nation’s most sensitive secrets? I wrote to the White House with eleven of my colleagues demanding an explanation pic.twitter.com/zoVcV3vkxG— Richard Blumenthal (@SenBlumenthal) February 10, 2018Among the other lawmakers to sign the letter were Democratic Sens. Kamala Harris    (Calif.), Tammy Duckworth    (Ill.), Mazie Hirono    (Hawaii), Kirsten Gillibrand    (N.Y.), Catherine Cortez Masto    (Nev.), Tammy Baldwin    (Wis.), Ron Wyden    (Ore.), Elizabeth Warren    (Mass.), Tom Udall    (N.M.) and Cory Booker    (N.J.) along with Sen. Bernie Sanders    (I-Vt.).Media reports have indicated that senior White House officials, including Kelly and McGahn, knew about the allegations against Porter for months. The episode has also prompted concerns about other White House officials who have been allowed to work for a prolonged amount of time on interim clearances.The Washington Post reported Thursday that dozens of Trump administration officials still lack permanent security clearances more than a year into Trump's presidency.Among those working on only an interim clearance is President Trump   's son-in-law and senior adviser Jared Kushner   , the Post reported.   



