

 



Democrats took to Twitter on Thursday to criticize Sen. Rand Paul    (R-Ky.) for his speech against the Senate spending bill’s deficit impact, with one lawmaker accusing Paul of being “inconsistent” with his support.Paul took to the Senate floor to demand 15 minutes of debate and a vote on an amendment to keep budget ceilings in place before a full vote on the funding bill.The House and the Senate need to pass the two-year funding bill by midnight Thursday in order to avoid a government shutdown, the second in less than a month.Paul has slammed the bill for raising budget caps by roughly $300 billion and raising the debt ceiling through March 2019, calling it a “rotten deal.”"When Republicans are in charge there is no conservative party," he told Fox News. "A lot of so-called conservatives lose their mind when it becomes a partisan thing." On the Senate floor, Paul again slammed Republicans, calling their position on the bill “hypocrisy.”"If you were against President Obama's deficits, and now you're for the Republican deficits, isn't that the very definition of hypocrisy?" he said.Democratic Sen. Brian Schatz    (Hawaii) fired back at Paul, calling his position “inconsistent.”“Rand, in December you voted YES  on a top heavy, unpaid for, 1.5 trillion dollar tax giveaway,” Schatz tweeted. “That seems rather...inconsistent.”Rand, in December you voted YES on a top heavy, unpaid for, 1.5 trillion dollar tax giveaway. That seems rather...inconsistent. https://t.co/0TnP2STLfa— Brian Schatz (@brianschatz) February 8, 2018Sen. Chris Murphy    (D-Conn.) echoed Schatz’s remarks, saying it “takes guts” to oppose the funding bill after supporting the GOP tax bill.Props to Rs who just voted for tax cut that creates $1.5 TRILLION in debt who are now complaining the budget deal increases the debt. Takes guts. Respect.— Chris Murphy (@ChrisMurphyCT) February 8, 2018Senate Minority Leader Charles Schumer   ’s (D-N.Y.) communications director, Matt House, also took a shot at Paul for his vote on the GOP tax bill.Did @RandPaul vote for the $1.5 trillion, deficit-busting tax bill?Oh, he did? Let's vote.— Matt House (@mattwhouse) February 8, 2018Paul is threatening to delay a procedural vote on the bill if he doesn’t get his amendment vote."If they want to stay up until 3 in the morning, I'm happy to do it," he said on Fox News late Thursday afternoon. Under Senate rules, the earliest the chamber can take its first vote on the agreement is 1 a.m. Friday, after the deadline, unless every senator agrees to move it up. 



