 

Highlights: Leicester City 1-0 Sheffield United

Leicester can "move on" from the Riyad Mahrez transfer saga after the Algerian helped them reach the quarter-finals of the FA Cup, says manager Claude Puel.Mahrez, who was back in the side after missing 10 days of training when a proposed move to Manchester City did not materialise, set up Jamie Vardy's goal in a 1-0 win over Sheffield United.He left the field to a standing ovation when replaced by Matty James in added time.

"The most important thing in the game was the fans supported Riyad, and when I replaced him it was a good feeling with the fans," said Puel. "It's important to stay united about this. "The situation is behind us, it's important to look forward. Now we have two home games in the Premier League and it's important to get the support of the fans."Leicester had to work hard to break down a well-drilled Blades defence, and the Championship visitors went close through Enda Stevens and George Baldock.But their Premier League hosts dominated possession, and Vardy had a second effort ruled out for offside.Leicester, who are now unbeaten in seven home games, always looked most likely to score first, but only kept their advantage thanks to Kasper Schmeichel's fine diving save from Baldock.The Foxes will discover their last-eight opponents on Saturday at 20:00 GMT.Mahrez forgiven again



Mahrez (right) impressed on his return to the Leicester sideMahrez's name received the loudest cheer when the Leicester team was read out before the match, showing the Foxes faithful are a forgiving lot.The Algerian was back in the starting line-up 16 days after a potential deadline-day move to Manchester City ended in disappointment for him.It was the second high-profile occasion he had tried to leave Leicester, and the second time their fans had to decide how to respond.Their support before kick-off will have eased any nerves the 26-year-old harboured, and he replied with an assured performance, including creating the goal for Vardy.He showed little sign of rust, making four key passes - more than any team-mate - and did enough to suggest he has knuckled down again.With that issue resolved, Puel wants "conviction and desire" from all of his players on the run-in."There are 11 Premier League games left, and we have the FA Cup," he said. "It's a crucial competition for us."Blades have reasons to be cheerful



Sheffield United had precious little possession but still threatened an upsetUnited boss Chris Wilder's options were limited by a combination of injuries, suspensions and cup-tied players.The Blades, who fielded an under-strength side in their 4-1 defeat by Leicester in the Carabao Cup earlier this season, again had an unfamiliar look, with six changes from their win over Leeds.So it was to their credit that they produced a sterling defensive performance, exemplified by centre-back Jack O'Connell. For more than an hour they frustrated a team able to call on an England striker, and other attacking talents of the calibre of Mahrez and Kelechi Iheanacho.They had just 31% possession but still gave the Foxes a couple of scares, including when Stevens' goalbound shot was diverted behind by Harry Maguire.If being thwarted by one of their ex-players hurt, it paled in comparison to the pain they will have felt when former Sheffield Wednesday youth-teamer Vardy hit the net.But the travelling fans can be proud of a spirited display, which underlined the strength in their squad as they fight for a place in the top flight."We gave a good account of ourselves, but we are disappointed," said Wilder."We have performed great all season, the consistency levels have been great. To not be overrun here gives us great heart, and we need a great run in the league, which that has to be our priority. "All I ask is we always leave everything out there on the pitch, and we need to push on now."Man of the match - Jack O'Connell (Sheffield United)



The 23-year-old made more clearances (five) and won the ball back more than any team-mate in a display of maturity and focus - which also saw him have the most touches of the ball and the second-most passes for the visitors.Vardy can't stop scoring - the statsVardy has scored in five consecutive games for Leicester for the first time since October 2015 (seven games).Sheffield United have now failed to score in five consecutive FA Cup meetings with Leicester since they beat them 3-1 in January 1950.Indeed, the Foxes are unbeaten in their past six competitive meetings with the Blades (W4 D2), winning three in a row over them for the first time.Puel's side have gone seven home games without a defeat in all competitions (W4 D3), their longest such run since May 2017 (eight matches).The Blades have lost back-to-back FA Cup encounters with Premier League opponents without scoring a single goal for the first time since January 1995. They had suffered just one loss in their previous five against top flight sides prior to this, scoring each time (W3 D1).Mahrez has been directly involved in six goals in his past five appearances at the King Power Stadium (two goals, four assists) in all competitions, as many as his previous 17 combined.What's next?Leicester host Stoke City in the Premier League on Saturday, 24 February (12:30 GMT), while Sheffield United host QPR in the Championship on Tuesday, 20 February (19:45 GMT).Line-upsMatch StatsLive TextLine-upsLeicester1Schmeichel2Simpson5Morgan15Maguire3Chilwell7Gray21Iborra25Ndidi26MahrezSubstituted forJamesat 90+3'minutes8Iheanacho9VardySubstituted forAlbrightonat 84'minutesSubstitutes11Albrighton12Hamer14Adrien Silva16Dragovic22James28Fuchs33DiabatéSheff Utd27Blackman6Basham13WrightSubstituted forEvansat 76'minutes5O'Connell2Baldock44CarruthersSubstituted forDuffyat 76'minutes7Lundstram24Lafferty3Stevens11Donaldson12WilsonSubstituted forBrooksat 45'minutesSubstitutes10Sharp19Stearman21Duffy23Heneghan31Eastwood32Evans36BrooksReferee:Lee MasonAttendance:28,336Match StatsHome TeamLeicesterAway TeamSheff UtdPossessionHome69%Away31%ShotsHome12Away8Shots on TargetHome4Away1CornersHome9Away8FoulsHome9Away6Live TextPosted at   Match ends, Leicester City 1, Sheffield United 0.Full TimePosted at 90'+5' Second Half ends, Leicester City 1, Sheffield United 0.Posted at 90'+3' Delay over. They are ready to continue.SubstitutionPosted at 90'+3' Substitution, Leicester City. Matty James replaces Riyad Mahrez.Posted at 90'+2' Delay in match David Brooks (Sheffield United) because of an injury.Posted at 88' Corner,  Sheffield United. Conceded by Kasper Schmeichel.Posted at 85' Foul by Vicente Iborra (Leicester City).Posted at 85' Ched Evans (Sheffield United) wins a free kick on the right wing.Posted at 84' Attempt missed. Ched Evans (Sheffield United) right footed shot from more than 35 yards misses to the right.SubstitutionPosted at 84' Substitution, Leicester City. Marc Albrighton replaces Jamie Vardy.Posted at 84' Attempt blocked. Kelechi Iheanacho (Leicester City) left footed shot from outside the box is blocked. Assisted by Riyad Mahrez.Posted at 82' Foul by Kelechi Iheanacho (Leicester City).Posted at 82' Daniel Lafferty (Sheffield United) wins a free kick in the defensive half.Posted at 82' Foul by Jamie Vardy (Leicester City).Posted at 82' George Baldock (Sheffield United) wins a free kick in the defensive half.Posted at 81' Corner,  Leicester City. Conceded by George Baldock.Posted at 80' Corner,  Leicester City. Conceded by Chris Basham.Posted at 78' Corner,  Sheffield United. Conceded by Harry Maguire.Posted at 78' Foul by Riyad Mahrez (Leicester City).Posted at 78' Mark Duffy (Sheffield United) wins a free kick on the left wing.SubstitutionPosted at 76' Substitution, Sheffield United. Ched Evans replaces Jake M Wright.SubstitutionPosted at 76' Substitution, Sheffield United. Mark Duffy replaces Samir Carruthers.Posted at 74' Offside, Leicester City. Ben Chilwell tries a through ball, but Riyad Mahrez is caught offside.Posted at 73' Attempt missed. Samir Carruthers (Sheffield United) right footed shot from the centre of the box misses to the left. Assisted by Enda Stevens with a cross.Posted at 72' Corner,  Sheffield United. Conceded by Kasper Schmeichel.Posted at 72' Attempt saved. George Baldock (Sheffield United) left footed shot from the centre of the box is saved in the centre of the goal. Assisted by Enda Stevens.Posted at 70' Corner,  Leicester City. Conceded by Jamal Blackman.Posted at 70' Attempt saved. Demarai Gray (Leicester City) right footed shot from the left side of the box is saved in the bottom right corner. Assisted by Ben Chilwell.Posted at 69' Corner,  Leicester City. Conceded by Jack O'Connell.Posted at 68' Corner,  Leicester City. Conceded by Enda Stevens.Goal!Posted at 66' Goal!  Leicester City 1, Sheffield United 0. Jamie Vardy (Leicester City) header from the left side of the six yard box to the bottom right corner. Assisted by Riyad Mahrez with a cross.Posted at 62' Corner,  Leicester City. Conceded by Chris Basham.Posted at 60' Corner,  Leicester City. Conceded by Jack O'Connell.Posted at 60' Attempt missed. David Brooks (Sheffield United) left footed shot from the left side of the box misses to the right. Assisted by Enda Stevens.Posted at 57' Attempt missed. Wilfred Ndidi (Leicester City) right footed shot from outside the box is high and wide to the right. Assisted by Demarai Gray.Posted at 55' Ben Chilwell (Leicester City) wins a free kick in the defensive half.Posted at 55' Foul by Clayton Donaldson (Sheffield United).Posted at 54' Foul by Harry Maguire (Leicester City).Posted at 54' John Lundstram (Sheffield United) wins a free kick in the defensive half.Posted at 53' Demarai Gray (Leicester City) wins a free kick in the defensive half.Show more updatesgoal
