Three Billboards Outside Ebbing, Missouri emerged as a surprising Oscar frontrunner after winning four Golden Globes—Best Picture: Drama, Actress: Drama, Supporting Actor, and Screenplay—at a charged ceremony dominated by discussion of Hollywood’s power imbalances and the #MeToo movement. Though films like Lady Bird and The Shape of Water also won big, and shows like Big Little Lies, The Handmaid’s Tale, and The Marvelous Mrs. Maisel did well in the TV categories, the ceremony’s most memorable moment came in an honorary award for Oprah Winfrey, who spoke out on the industry’s issues with misogyny, sexual abuse, and the ongoing lack of diversity in Hollywood’s corridors of power.The Globes, presented by the Hollywood Foreign Press Association, are usually a somewhat raucous affair that serves as a dry run for the Oscars, offering some insights into what films might take off for the rest of awards season. But this ceremony had more weight to it than usual because it was the first major industry event after months of stories about sexual misconduct and harassment, and the felling of powerful industry figures like Harvey Weinstein and Kevin Spacey.Frances McDormand, named Best Actress in a Motion Picture: Drama for her performance as the caustic Mildred in Martin McDonagh’s Three Billboards, put it succinctly in her acceptance speech: “It was really great to be in this room tonight, and to be part of a tectonic shift in our industry’s power structure,” she said. “Trust me, the women in this room tonight are not here for the food. We are here for the work. Thank you.” Three Billboards has been polarizing with critics, but its message of an uncompromising woman on the warpath to avenge her daughter’s murder clearly resonated with Globes voters.The other big film winner of the night was Lady Bird, Greta Gerwig’s coming-of-age comedy set in early-2000s Sacramento, which won Best Motion Picture: Comedy or Musical and Best Actress in a Motion Picture: Comedy or Musical for Saoirse Ronan. Worlds apart from Three Billboards in tone, it is another female-led film that could make waves at the Oscars in March, and it’s also one of the only frontrunners directed by a woman—a fact underscored by the presenter Natalie Portman, who pointed out all five Best Director nominees were men. Barbra Streisand, presenting Best Motion Picture: Drama, also noted that she remains the only female winner of that prize at the Globes.