


Conte was speaking ahead of the Blues' FA Cup clash against Hull on Friday night, but he was interrupted by an Italian comedian who attempted to give him a Red Devils shirt signed by Jose Mourinho.
talkSPORT will bring you LIVE commentary of Chelsea v Hull in the FA Cup fifth round on Friday, KO 8pm - FULL DETAILS HERE
The manager was revealing his plans to rotate his team ahead of a demanding schedule in which they next play Barcelona, Manchester United and Manchester City, when the comedian from Italian comedy satire show Le Iene rose from his seat.
It was when Conte saw the shirt that he stopped smiling - the Manchester United manager had last month signed it, unaware it featured Conte's name, when approached by comedians from the same programme in Manchester.
Watch the bizarre exchange IN FULL below:

⏲️13.30
Cobham
pic.twitter.com/cntkkng5wn
— Hayters Teamwork (@HaytersTeamwork) February 15, 2018

After the imposter was asked to leave, Conte revealed that he remains without the injured Tiemoue Bakayoko, David Luiz and Ross Barkley for Friday's visit of Hull.
Asked if he was preparing to change his team, he responded: "For sure, we have in front of us two weeks that are very tough.
"For this reason, it's right to have a programme, to have a plan, to face these two tough weeks in the right way. But, at the same time, we want to try to go through to the next round in the FA Cup.
"Bakayoko is out. Luiz is out. Barkley is out. Then I have a couple of situations that I have to check.
"When you start a season, every competition is a priority. We tried to do the same in the Carabao Cup and reached the semi-final. We want to fight for every competition. There is not one priority. There are three priorities for the rest of this season."
In response to Roy Keane, a one-time opponent with United while Conte played for Juventus, labelling his players "unprofessional", Conte said: "In every moment I have underlined the commitment of the players. In this 18 months, we built a great mentality. In every training session I see great commitment and great behaviour. Under this aspect, I'm very happy."
 
