


Mane, Salah and Firmino were at their frightening best as Liverpool thumped Porto 5-0 to put one foot in the Champions League quarter-finals on Wednesday night, with the Senegal ace netting his first Reds hat-trick.
PLAYER RATINGS: Jurgen Klopp's men rated and slated after five-star victory over Porto
Jurgen Klopp’s attacking superstars have scored 63 goals between them this season, with Salah totting up 30 goals alone in his debut campaign.
Barnes says they are arguably the best attacking line-up he has seen at the club, but has argued that Klopp's aggressive playing style should get as much credit for their form as the players themselves.
“I think they are [the best], but for me I think it’s mostly down to the manager and the way they play," he told the Alan Brazil Sports Breakfast.
“The way Liverpool play suits a front-three like that. I don’t think Salah would do as well playing in a Man United team because of the way Mourinho sets him team up. I think you are a reflection of how the manager wants you to play.
“I think the front-three have a lot to be grateful for, for having a manager like Jurgen Klopp.
"Liverpool are bearing the fruit of the trust they have put in Klopp, because the team is starting have the right balance, that will only get better when Naby Keita comes in in the summer.”
But Barnes believes the Reds still need a proven centre-forward to close to gap on Manchester City and the other Premier League title contenders.
“They need better all-round players,” the former Kop star added.
“The front-three are great, but I don’t feel that they are necessarily going to continue to do this for the next two or three years.
“Salah is not a centre forward, I don’t think he is a player who can score goals consistently over a period of time. We don’t have players like that.
“We have players like Salah and Mane and, although Mane scored a hat-trick against Porto, they are not out-and-out goalscorers.
“So, as funny as it may seem, I think if they could get a centre forward, a penalty box player and play Firmino slightly deeper, I think it will be better for the balance of the team.
“Yes, we’re scoring lots of goals but can we see Mane and Salah continuing to score this amount of goals on a regular basis? I think we need to get better individual players now.”
 
