


Italian giants Juventus have enquired about Arsenal midfielder Jack Wilshere. They are set to be disappointed though, because the England international is ready to sign a new deal to stay at the Emirates — despite the Gunners' opening offer representing a basic-wage pay-cut on his current terms. (Daily Mirror)
Arsenal and Chelsea are both monitoring Luke Shaw’s contract talks with Manchester United. Old Trafford boss Jose Mourinho has confirmed Shaw is in line for a new deal, which represents a big turnaround for the England left-back's United career. Negotiations are yet to start on that new deal, however, despite the 22-year-old’s contract being up at the end of next season. (Daily Mirror)
Zlatan Ibrahimovic is already preparing for life after Manchester United by checking houses in Beverly Hills. LA Galaxy are firm favourites to sign the striker, whose one-year contract at Old Trafford finishes at the end of the season. (Daily Mail)
Tottenham Hotspur are willing to offer Mauricio Pochettino a lucrative new contract to lead the club into their £850 million stadium as reward for his impressive work that has attracted a number of suitors. Real Madrid are interested in Pochettino, while the Argentine’s former club Paris Saint-Germain are also admirers. But Spurs are desperate for Pochettino to take the club into their new stadium next season. (Daily Telegraph)
Tottenham Hotspur and Everton are among a host of Premier League clubs tracking PSV Eindhoven star Steven Bergwijn. (ESPN)
Real Madrid will sign Paris St-Germain's 26-year-old Brazilian striker Neymar in 2019. The Brazilian has been heavily linked with a move back to La Liga ever since his world-record transfer to Paris Saint-Germain in the summer. (Mundo Deportivo)
And here are the latest talkSPORT.com headlines...​
‘Anything is possible’ – David Ginola says Tottenham can challenge for Champions League glory this season
talkSPORT exclusive: Ryan Mason has ‘no regrets’ following retirement and reveals ambitions for coaching role at Tottenham
Liverpool transfer report: Goalkeeper target Alisson to get £80m release clause in new Roma contract
Manchester United transfer news: How the club could line-up with Alderweireld and Pulisic
 
