In Don Hertzfeldt’s films, the unconscious can be a grand, terrifying playground, a vast sci-fi landscape of swirling vortexes, rainbow-colored clouds, and shiny oblong rocks strewn beside a black sea. Early in World of Tomorrow Episode Two: The Burden of Other People’s Thoughts, Hertzfeldt’s dizzying sequel to his Oscar-nominated 2015 short film World of Tomorrow, a little girl and her adult clone are exploring a virtual representation of the clone’s brain. The two walk around a beach of memories, and the girl picks up a shiny object. “That is a glimmer of hope,” her grown-up copy tells her. “Put it back.”You’d be forgiven for thinking this all sounds a little heady. But the delight of the World of Tomorrow series is the clarity of Hertzfeldt’s ideas, and how powerfully they ring through the strange, knotty stories of the future he’s depicting through a mix of stick-figure animation and surreal digital effects. The first World of Tomorrow runs 16 minutes, and the sequel (now available to rent on Vimeo) is 22 minutes long. Within those short timeframes, Hertzfeldt tackles how humankind will eventually contend with immortality, time travel, cloning, deep-space colonization, and the end of the world. Hint: We don’t handle any of it very well.World of Tomorrow, which is currently available to stream on Netflix, is extremely funny, hauntingly sweet, and dense with philosophical concepts. It follows the adventures of a child named Emily (Winona Mae), who is visited by her third-generation clone (Julia Pott), a woman from hundreds of years in the future who has had all of Emily’s memories uploaded into her brain to guarantee a sort of immortality. The Emily-clone is an odd creature speaking in halting sentences, a copy of a copy trying to hang on to some semblance of a personality, where her revered ancestor (referred to as Emily Prime) is a bubbly kid who runs around and rambles about this and that.Emily Prime was voiced by Hertzfeldt’s 4-year-old niece, her performance cobbled together from audio recordings he made of her drawing and playing. For Episode Two, Hertzfeldt repeated the process (when his niece was 5 years old), and found it more difficult to assemble a logical plot around her. “That madness of childhood imagination had fully taken hold and she was spouting endless monologues about fantasy worlds,” he said in an interview. Perhaps that’s why Episode Two lacks the relative simplicity of its forebear. But the challenge posed to Hertzfeldt helped him expand his world and dig into weirder new ideas, while maintaining the goofy energy of the first short film.