


Graham Potter has guided the Swedish minnows to three domestic promotions in his time as head coach and they play host to Premier League giants Arsenal in their last-32 tie on Thursday.
talkSPORT has live and exclusive national radio commentary of Ostersund v Arsenal on Thursday night
Ostersund played the majority of their 21-year history in the country’s third tier before their first ever promotion to the top flight in 2016.
They bagged their spot in Europe by winning the Swedish Cup and have recorded victories over Galatasaray, Hertha Berlin and PAOK, as well as a draw against Athletic Bilbao, this season.
Potter joined talkSPORT on the eve of the club’s biggest game in their - albeit short - history, and he told the Alan Brazil Sports Breakfast: “We are playing a top team. Arsenal are a Champions League club and we’re looking forward to the game.
“We are proud of what we have done, proud to make a team that people are proud of. We want to be brave, be ourselves on the pitch. We respect the hierarchy of football but we want to represent ourselves as best we can.
“Is it a mismatch? Absolutely.
“If you look at the resources of both clubs, we shouldn’t really be playing Arsenal in this type of competition.
“But we are and we’ve got to this point, we have to make the best of it.
"I think we are prepared. When I look back, yes we have done well to get to this point, but it's completely different when you play Arsenal, who are looking to win it."
Potter, who played for the likes of York City, West Brom, Stoke City and in the Premier League with Southampton, added: "I have never got through to the last 16 of the Europa League so it will be the biggest achievement. Every game we have won has been new to us, that is why I am impressed by our players.
"You don't want the conditions to make it a farce, now it is quite pleasant. It is like a spring morning and I'm sure Arsenal will adapt - it is not the conditions, it is the way we play."
Potter also called Arsenal boss Arsene Wenger an 'inspiration' for managers like himself.
"He has done an incredible amount for English football, more than anybody.
“He is part of the reason English football has changed in terms of approach and professionalism."
Graham Potter also sat down for an interview with the Coaches' Voice to discuss his remarkable managerial story. Read more here.
 
