


Mason announced his retirement from football on Tuesday, 13 months after suffering a life-threatening head injury for Hull City.
The midfielder, who came through Tottenham’s academy and joined the Tigers in 2016, was hospitalised for over a week and left with 14 metal plates in his head after fracturing his skull in a clash of heads with Chelsea defender Gary Cahill.
Mason was aiming for a miraculous comeback after what appeared to be a successful recovery, but revealed this week that he has been forced to retire on medical advice.
Speaking for the first time since Tuesday’s announcement, Mason said he has no regrets about the decision in a heartfelt interview with talkSPORT host Jim White.
“It’s been no secret that I’ve been 100 per cent determined to get back,” he said.
“But a few weeks ago I had a follow-up CT scan and it revealed an issue with the brain that wasn’t shown before. 
“I’ve sought about ten specialists’ advice, but the risk was too high. To think about heading the ball if I needed to, it just wasn’t realistic. 
“I have come to terms with it. I feel good about the situation now. I’ve gone through that emotional side of it, of having to accept I won’t be playing again.
"The decision was taken out of my hands, so I know I’m not going to regret anything further down the line. There’s a lot of relief on my family’s part.
"Now I can look forward. The next chapter of my life is going to be an exciting one.”
'I'm a Tottenham man - It's in my DNA'

Mason has also revealed ambitions to coach at his boyhood club after ending his playing career.
Mauricio Pochettino recently described Mason as a ‘special player’ and insisted the door is open for the midfielder to return to Tottenham.
The 26-year-old came through the ranks at Spurs and went on to make 69 Premier League appearances for the club, and he wants to give back by helping coach the next generation of future stars.
“I’m keen to stay football one way or another, it would be a shame to walk away from the game,” he added.
“I spent 18 or 19 years at Tottenham and it’s no secret that’s my club.
“I’m a Tottenham man, I’ve come through the club and it’s in my DNA.
“I’ve learned a lot from them and I think if I was to go down the coaching route my philosophy and way of teaching would be the Tottenham way.
“I’m sure at some point, I don’t know when yet, I would like to get into coaching and help young kids make that step from academy into first-team football.
“I’m in a unique position at 26 and what I’ve been through – I feel like I’ve achieved a lot in the game in a short space of time, so to give back and help people make that step in their careers would be a priority of mine.”
LISTEN: ‘Ryan Mason was one of the best youth players I’ve ever seen’, former Tottenham coach tells talkSPORT
A top footballer would be forgiven for reacting with anger and frustration after having their career taken away from them at such as young age.
Instead, Mason, who became a father in December, has a more positive outlook about his future, saying he will look back on his career with immense pride and is content, having achieved all his boyhood dreams.
“I dreamed of walking out at White Hart Lane and I achieved that, I scored Premier league goals for Tottenham, I captained the team and obviously to go on and play for England as well, it’s what every player dreams of," he said.
“I look back and in the last three years since I made my breakthrough at Tottenham I’ve achieved a hell of a lot in the game.
“Obviously it’s a shame that’s not going to continue over the next ten years, but I have achieved all of my childhood dreams.
“I’m very fortunate to be walking away from the game at a young age, having been content and knowing that I achieved those dreams.”
Listen to talkSPORT’s exclusive interview with Ryan Mason IN FULL above!
 
