


A high-ranking source at Real Madrid says the club could spend up to €600million this summer to overhaul the team, and Harry Kane will be a top target of the Spanish giants. Real Madrid are also considering Spurs coach Mauricio Pochettino as a potential replacement for Zinédine Zidane this summer​. (Sports Illustrated)
Real Madrid want to sign unsettled Neymar from PSG in the summer and are confident of doing a deal for the former Barcelona superstar. (Independent)
Totttenham midfielder Mousa Dembele is a shock target for Chinese side Beijing Sinobo Guoan. The Chinese Super League team is prepared to pay Dembele £160,000-a-week over the next three years - at least double his current wages at Spurs. (The Sun)
Manchester United are monitoring Toby Alderweireld's situation at Tottenham as the defender continues to stall on a new contract. Alderweireld, 28, is out of contract in under 18 months but his deal includes a one-year extension which is scheduled to be triggered in the summer of 2019. However, his contract also features a £25million release clause which can be activated in the 2019 summer transfer window. (Manchester Evening News)
Ander Herrera is being targeted by AC Milan as they prepare a summer move for the Manchester United midfielder. United would be willing to let Herrera leave but only if Milan table an offer in excess of £30m. (Daily Star)
Crystal Palace boss Roy Hodgson has flown in Brazilian keeper Diego Cavalieri as he looks to solve a major crisis. Cavalieri, 35, is a free agent after cancelling his contract with Fluminense in his homeland and can join the Eagles who have only one fit senior keeper. (The Sun)
Liverpool goalkeeping target Allison is in talks over a new deal with Roma which is set to contain an £80million release clause. (Calciomercato)
Newcastle will pay up to £5.2million to make keeper Martin Dubravka their player. The Czech star is currently only on loan, and made a brilliant debut in the weekend's 1-0 win over Manchester United. (Daily Mirror)
And here are the latest talkSPORT.com headlines...​
Liam Brady has told talkSPORT nobody could have predicted that Harry Kane would go on to become one of the world’s best strikers after he was released by Arsenal at the age of eight
Ryan Mason has been described as ‘one of the best players’ to come out of Tottenham’s academy by former academy coach Chris Ramsey, who spoke to Hawksbee and Jacobs on Tuesday afternoon
Gordon Taylor’s £2.2million salary as chief executive of the Professional Footballers’ Association ‘cannot be justified’, Simon Jordan has told talkSPORT host Jim White
Former Blues defender Mario Melchiot told the Alan Brazil Sports Breakfast losing Eden Hazard would be devastating for the club, and has urged the Blues to resolve the uncertainly over his future
Arsenal, Tottenham, Chelsea and Manchester United have all been put on high alert after wonderkid Justin Kluivert revealed he could see himself playing for any of them
Liverpool, Manchester United and Chelsea target Stefan de Vrij is still yet to sign a new contract with Lazio due to the demands of his agent
Arsenal target Max Meyer has reportedly decided to join Bayern Munich in the summer
 
