


Vincent Kompany, the captain and long serving defender, thinks it is – or at least they’re very well positioned to challenge for the crown considering the way the side is playing and the confidence displayed.
“If there is a year, a moment when the club is ready to feel at home [in the Champions League] then it’s now,” he said.
“I’m not going to say it’s a matter of time [before City win the Champions League] — some clubs never win it — but if every year we can go with this kind of confidence then, if not this year or next year, eventually we’ll get there. I’m sure of it.”
Standing in their way, though, is Swiss side Basel and that first leg of their last 16 encounter is live on talkSPORT 2.
What time is kick-off?
The match begins at 19:45 (GMT)
Where is it being played?
St. Jakob Park, Switzerland.
How can I listen?You stream Basel v Man City on talkSPORT 2 here.
Is there any team news?
Leroy Sane has travelled with the squad to Switzerland, which has come as quite a surprise considering he was expected to be out of action for at least six weeks when he suffered ankle ligament damage at the end of January. "I am surprised (he is fit)," said manager Pep Guardiola. "He has worked very hard. He is not in perfect condition but he wants to help us."

Who will start?
Possible Basel line-up: Vacilik; Lacroix, Suchy, Balanta; Lang, Zuffi, Xhaka, Petretta; Elyounoussi, Van Wolfswinkel, Oberlin
Have a look at City’s possible line-up here.
How have the teams fared this season?
Basel are currently second behind Young Boys in the Swiss Super League where they trail their rivals by five points.
City have lost just once this season in the Premier League and are 16 points ahead of nearest challengers Man United.
Which players are in form?
Basel striker Dimitri Oberlin has scored four goals in his last five Champions League games.
Sergio Aguero, meanwhile, has been in similar free-scoring form this season with 29 goals in all competitions.
Stream Basel v Man City on talkSPORT 2 at 19:45 (GMT) on Tuesday 13 February
 
