


Taylor, 73, has found himself under the spotlight following the publication of PFA accounts, which showed he was paid as much as some Premier League players in the 2016/2017 period.
The £2.2m he received last year was almost double what he was paid in the previous year, and included a £770,000 bonus.
In comparison, the PFA spent £100,000 during the same period on research into head injuries in football, while the union’s entire annual budget is just under £17m.
The revelations have sparked a strong reaction in the world of football, with former Chelsea star Graeme Le Saux branding his pay packet ‘absolutely scandalous’, while the daughter of West Brom legend Jeff Astle has accused Taylor of ‘lining his own pockets’.
And former Crystal Palace chairman Jordan, who was involved in a heated row with Taylor live on talkSPORT last week, says it shows football is ‘losing touch with reality’.
“It can’t be justified,” he told talkSPORT host Jim White.
“Not because it’s Gordon, I couldn’t care less if it was the Dalai Lama who was head of a union, but this is the smallest union in the world.
“The members don’t actually contribute a great deal financially, it’s the deal from the broadcasters via the Premier League that pays the PFA their money, and it can’t be justified.
“It’s an example of football losing touch with reality. There are clubs in League One and League Two where players aren’t earning fortunes.
“I don’t want to get too deep in personal comments, because myself and Gordon had a debate last week on talkSPORT and I don’t want it to be seen as a personal issue, but there can be no justification for it.
“To defend this kind of remuneration, for it to be 14 per cent of the total income that the union gets on one person’s salary, to defend that is to defend the indefensible.
“What I’m surprised about is how this is a bloody surprise!
“This had been going on for a significant passage of time, and this is a year-old salary so I’d wager that his salary in the next year will be greater.
“The union’s job is to represent their members and to ensure that those people have all the available support – if you’re taking 14 per cent of the income this union has and redirecting it into one person’s salary, how can that be serving the members that need support?
“This isn’t a witch hunt for Gordon Taylor, but this can’t be right, it just can’t.”
READ MORE: PFA chief Gordon Taylor and Simon Jordan in talkSPORT bust-up over Leicester's AWOL star Riyad Mahrez
 
