


Mason, who came through the ranks at Tottenham before joining Hull in 2016, underwent emergency surgery to repair a fracture to his skull in January 2017 after a clash of heads with Chelsea defender Gary Cahill.
He told talkSPORT in an exclusive interview last October that he was desperate to return after a steady recovery period.
MORE: Ryan Mason's full talkSPORT interview – footballer's remarkable story, in conversation with Jim White
But the 26-year-old revealed on Tuesday that, after seeking medical advice, he has "no option" other than to hang up his boots for good.
A statement from Hull read: "It is with deep regret that the Club has to announce that, following the head injury suffered on 22nd January 2017, Ryan Mason is to retire from football with immediate effect.
"Ryan has sought the guidance of numerous world renowned neurologists and neuro surgeons who have all advised that a return to competitive football is not advised.
"Ryan would like to put on record his thanks to all at the club who have aided his recovery to this point and he his is indebted to them for their support and compassion over the past 12 months."
Mason, won his sole England cap against Italy in March 2015, had loan spells with Yeovil, Doncaster, Millwall and Swindon during career with Spurs, before he was signed by Hull for £10million in the 2016 summer transfer window.
He scored two goals in 20 appearances for the Tigers before his first season with his new club was brought to a tragic end in the 13th minute of their Premier League game against Chelsea in January.
Mason required eight minutes of treatment on the pitch after a freak clash of heads with Blues centre-back Cahill, and was stretchered off wearing an oxygen mask.
Mason told talkSPORT Hull City doctor Mark Waller knew straight away he had fractured his skull as ‘the right side of my face was completely paralysed’, and he was sent straight to London’s St Mary’s Hospital so he could undergo emergency surgery.
The midfielder had 14 metal plates fused to his skull and was kept in an induced coma for over a week before being released from hospital.
He revealed to talkSPORT last year that he had been given the all-clear to play wearing head protection, but that his return was delayed after a CT scan revealed the gaps in his skull had not fused together as well as they should have done.
But after specialist advice, Mason has been forced to end his pursuit of a return to the pitch due to the 'risks involved' playing after his accident.
The player said in a statement: "I can confirm that following specialist medical advice I am having to retire from playing professional football.
"I'm retiring from the game with my head held high having done everything in my power over these past 13 months to have given myself every opportunity to return to the pitch,
"I have worked tirelessly in order to be able to return to the pitch.
"Unfortunately, having taken expert medical advice I now have no option but to retire due to the risks involved given the nature of my injury.
"I feel content knowing that I dedicated my life to be able to play football at the highest level, hard work really does pay off!
"There are too many names to mention when it comes to talking about Tottenham Hotspur but I would like to say a special thank you to John McDermott [head of coaching and playing development], the gaffer [Mauricio Pochettino] and everybody at Spurs for helping me to achieve my dreams.
"I am so proud to have come through the ranks to play for my club, the club I love. To have had the honour of captaining the team fills me with immense pride.
"Finally, representing my country is an honour that nobody can ever take away from me and something that I am so proud to have achieved."
 
