


The Egyptian winger has got off to a flyer since joining the Reds in a £34million deal from Roma in the summer.
It has proven a bargain fee for one of European football’s most in-form players, having scored 29 goals in all competitions for Liverpool so far this term.
The left-footed forward has dazzled defences all season and has quickly become a hero with the Anfield faithful, and Quinn says he could be the club’s most important arrival over the last decade.
“He’s just taken Anfield by storm,” the former Newcastle United striker and boyhood Liverpool fan told the Alan Brazil Sports Breakfast.
“He’s scored 29 goals this season, as a winger! It’s unheard of!
“This is a kid who everybody wrote off at Chelsea and there were raised eyebrows when Liverpool signed him in the summer.
“The skill he’s got – that goal he scored against Spurs, going past two players and lifting it over the goalkeeper, I can only think of a player like Messi scoring a goal like that.
“He’s got strength, he’s got pace to die for and he’s playing with a smile on his face.”
READ MORE - Mohamed Salah goals: Another record set to tumble as Liverpool star beats Bale, Van Persie and Fowler
Asked about how Salah compares with other recent Reds heroes, he added: “Luis Suarez was an unbelievable player, but he came with a lot of baggage – this kid has no baggage.
“Fernando Torres was a breath a fresh air when he came to Liverpool and scored spectacular goals, be he was an out-and-out centre forward and Salah is a midfielder.
“With Coutinho, I think he was yet to really fulfil his potential at Liverpool and he probably will do with Barcelona, but Salah now is at the very top of his game.
“I think he’s been one of the most important Liverpool signings and probably the best Liverpool signing in the last ten to 15 years.”

Fernando Torres
Luis Suarez
Philippe Coutinho@MickQuinn1089 tells us why @22mosalah is the best signing #LFC have made in the last 15 years...
https://t.co/AYsRgJWZEr pic.twitter.com/MyNW3OWFaw
— Alan Brazil (@SportsBreakfast) February 13, 2018

Agree with Micky Quinn? Have your say on our poll below!

 

 
