


Jose Mourinho is planning a serious shake-up of Manchester United’s defence this summer - with Chris Smalling and Phil Jones both set to be offloaded. United boss Mourinho is looking to bring in a new centre-half, with Smalling set to make way and fellow England defender Jones also under serious threat. (Daily Mirror)
Arturo Vidal insists he's committed to Bayern Munich amid speculation linking him with a move to Manchester United. Vidal has 18 months remaining on his deal with the Bundesliga champions and his contract situation has put a number of clubs on red alert. However, the former Juventus star is hoping to extend his stay at the Allianz Arena. (Daily Mirror)
Jürgen Klopp has cast further doubt on Simon Mignolet’s future at Liverpool by suggesting the Belgian will not be selected for Liverpool’s Champions Leaguematch against Porto on Wednesday. (Guardian)
Borussia Dortmund will make an attempt to sign Michy Batshuayi on a permanent basis in the summer. The Belgium international has already scored three goals in two starts since joining the club on loan from Stamford Bridge on the final day of the January transfer window. (London Evening Standard)
John Terry will consider his future in May as he weighs up whether to extend his career for another year. Terry, the Aston Villa captain, has decided to delay his next move until the end of the season as he focuses on helping guide Steve Bruce’s team back to the Premier League. (Daily Telegraph)
Leeds United will revive their bid to sign Jerry Mbakogu at the end of the season. The Carpi forward was a £3.5million target for Leeds in January but the Italian side didn't want to lose the focal point of their team as they push for a promotion play-off place in Serie B. (Daily Mail)
And here are the latest talkSPORT.com headlines...​
David Moyes has dismissed reports that he will definitely leave West Ham at the end of the season, telling talkSPORT - ‘That is not the case!’
Joey Barton in amazing blast at Mourinho and Woodward as he claims Man United have turned into 'Lotto louts'
Joey Barton believes Antonio Conte is ‘100 per cent desperate for the sack’ at Chelsea following his transfer disappointment at Stamford Bridge
Manchester United target Gareth Bale is worth as much as Neymar and is not looking to leave Real Madrid
Arsenal scouts are urging Arsene Wenger to swoop for Benfica midfielder Andrija Zivkovic
 
