


Toby Alderweireld is not due to travel to Turin for Tottenham Hotspur’s biggest game of the season against Juventus, which will place a new question mark against the central defender’s future. The Belgian e is yet to agree to agree a new contract and his current deal contains a one-year extension option, which is scheduled to activate in the summer of 2019 and would see him contracted to 2020. But it also features a £25million release clause that could be activated in the summer of 2019. (Daily Telegraph)
Manchester United boss Jose Mourinho wants to make a massive summer signing to close the gap on Manchester City next season and Real Madrid playmaker Isco is on his shopping list. (Don Balon)
Jose Mourinho has insisted it would be a mistake for Manchester United to let goalkeeper David de Gea join Real Madrid this summer. Spain's No 1 is on a shortlist at the Bernabeu that also includes Chelsea's Thibaut Courtois but Mourinho wants the 27-year-old to remain at Old Trafford and attempt to win his second Premier League title. (Daily Mail)
Fernando Llorente has cast doubt on his future at Spurs by admitting he misses his former club Juventus. The Spanish striker, left out of the squad for Saturday’s north London derby win, played for the Italian champions for two seasons, scoring 27 goals in 91 appearances. (Daily Mirror)
David Sullivan has told West Ham fans to stick by the club after revealing he will be overhauling the way the club scout, analyse and sign targets in the coming transfer windows. (London Evening Standard)
Brentford are selling forward Lasse Vibe to Chinese Super League club Changchun Yatai for £2million. (Daily Mail)
And here are the latest talkSPORT.com headlines...​
Manchester United boss Jose Mourinho praises Magpies' fighting spirit as his Newcastle hoodoo continues
Harry Kane is a 'unique' footballer and will be a one-club legend at Tottenham, Harry Redknapp tells talkSPORT
'No problem with Riyad' - Leicester City boss Claude Puel adamant the squad have forgiven Mahrez after Manchester City hammering
'Abramovich must feel sick' - Fans go wild after Kevin De Bruyne masterclass sees off Leicester City
 
