


The 24-year-old has transformed into one of the most lethal strikers in world football over the past four seasons and continued his fine goalscoring form with the winning goal in Saturday’s north London derby against Arsenal.
But his sensational strike record – he has now scored 101 Premier League goals – has also made him one of the most coveted players in world football.
He has been constantly linked with a move away from White Hart Lane over the past 18 months, with Manchester United and Real Madrid among the clubs reportedly interested.
However, Kane has consistently reminded any listening suitors that he is fully dedicated to Spurs and wants to win major honours with his boyhood club.
And Redknapp insists the England international is at the right club to achieve his lofty ambitions, and says he is on his way to becoming a Tottenham legend.
Speaking ahead of Spurs' derby win, Redknapp said: “I personally see Harry staying at Tottenham long-term.
“If you mention most players I’d say yeah, they’re going to want to go and win things and their agent is probably going to move them on, but I don’t think Harry is one of those players.
“Harry is a unique lad. He’s earning good money and he’s not chasing that extra few quid.
“If there is a footballer in the county who wants to be loyal to his club, it would be Harry Kane. The boy is a one-off, he’s unique, he’s not your average modern footballer. He’s a family man and he has a good life at Tottenham.
“It’s like Steven Gerrard at Liverpool – we haven’t seen that for a long time. Someone who is idolised by the fans and is part of the make-up of the club
“I think that’s what Harry is at Tottenham and I think that connection will only get stronger.
“The thing is, where would he go?
“If he stays in this country, the only place he could go to win a title at the moment is Man City. Is he going to go to Real Madrid? They’re in decline at the moment and Tottenham beat them in the Champions League earlier this season, and he’s not needed at Barcelona with who they have there.
“I think Harry is at a good club. He loves it at Tottenham and the fans love him, he is absolutely idolised by them.”
 
