  Face it, Washington: After a long day of running the government or trying to shut it down, you don’t want to spend the evening with an earnest show. You want something that turns your brain to crab dip, and lo, there’s a vat of cream cheese at the National Theatre called “Something Rotten!” This is a musical spoofing musicals, and the title gets it right: “Something Rotten!” isn’t fresh. This touring version of the 2015 Broadway hit has the leftover aroma of “The Producers,” “The Book of Mormon” and a half dozen campy escapades from the Reduced Shakespeare Company.  “How do you solve a problem like Ophelia?” someone asks as everything you know about theater gets pureed at high speed. A bitter rival of Shakespeare’s — Nick Bottom, the ham from “A Midsummer Night’s Dream” — goes to a soothsayer named Thomas Nostradamus to see what audiences will want in the future, so he can write a hit now. The answer is musicals — “Musicals!” the poufy-pants characters gush with wonder, looking up and spreading their arms. This leads to anachronistic inside jokes about singing cats and fiddlers on roofs. This is easy pickins, a wide-open door to a “Forbidden Broadway”-esque mash-up with endless Shakespearean puns — a consummation devoutly to be squished. Once you get the setup, it’s surprising how unsurprising it is, from the theme park energy of the opening number, “Welcome to the Renaissance,” to the inevitable second act anthem of realization, the gospel-funk “We See the Light.” Wink, wink, nudge — this is the formula, get it? As “Spamalot” sang, it’s the song that goes like this. Here’s the rub: Director-choreographer Casey Nicholaw has a knack for shepherding these high-concept low comedies written by showbiz veterans trying out their first musicals. His résumé goes from “The Book of Mormon” by the “South Park” guys to Tina Fey’s “Mean Girls” and this, by screenwriter Karey Kirkpatrick and his songwriting brother, Wayne, with British writer John O’Farrell. Nicholaw runs a tight ship and can disarm you with joy, especially during the musical numbers. His shrugging, swiveling jazz-hands dancers always look in­cred­ibly happy, like they just lucked into the greatest party. The cast at the National sells this awfully well, too. Who better to be a rock-star Shakespeare than original “Rent” star Adam Pascal? He’s got the strut and ego and, for a second, he even sounds like David Bowie as he croons over the bass-heavy rocker “Will Power”: “I am the Will with the skill to thrill you with my quill.” The book is loaded with smutty puns that particularly grip the tongue of the Puritan minister who sees the stage as a pit of sinners, and playing this scold, actor Scott Cote fumes like Yosemite Sam at the Bottom brothers. Yes, Nick (Rob McClure, in a role that’s all frustrated energy and no real appeal) tries to collaborate with his poetic brother, Nigel (Josh Grisetti, sweet and naive), whose genius lines get swiped by that magpie Shakespeare.    Shakespeare and showgirls: Rob McClure as Nick Bottom in “Something Rotten!” (Jeremy Daniel)  The material seldom catches you off guard until Nick’s “Springtime for Hitler”-y musical of “Hamlet,” which gets things wrong a la the wacky “Book of Mormon” second-act number but with enough delirium that you can’t really resist. If you want to compare and contrast, there’s a big “Hamlet” playing a couple of blocks away at the Shakespeare Theatre Company, and “Something Rotten!” is right in that sometimes you just need a hot furnace blast of glitz and a kickline. Nicholaw molds it into a crowd-pleaser, especially for audiences hip to blips of everything from “Pippin” to “Les Miz.” But it’s mostly a one-joke rip-off that spins in place.   Something Rotten!, book by Karey Kirkpatrick and John O’Farrell, music and lyrics by Wayne Kirkpatrick and Karey Kirkpatrick. Directed by Casey Nicholaw. Scenic design, Scott Pask; costumes Gregg Barnes; lights, Jeff Croiter; sound design, Peter Hylenski. About 2½ hours. Through Feb. 18 at the National Theatre, 1321 Pennsylvania Ave. NW. Tickets: $48-$203. Call 800-514-3849 or visit thenationaldc.com.  