   A Proustian moment is measured in pixels in “La Foto (A Selfie Affair),” Gustavo Ott’s flawed new comedy. Making its world premiere in a GALA Hispanic Theatre production directed by Abel López, the play centers on Laura and Denis, former high school sweethearts who reconnect online decades later. Intoxicated by memories of youthful passion and possibility, with the immediacy of a 21st-century digital hookup providing a further thrill, one of the erstwhile lovers sends off a risque selfie.  Bad move! With a speed no madeleine could hope to emulate, the nostalgia-freighted snapshot proceeds to upend lives, create public scandal and threaten Denis’s midlife-crisis car, a red flame-etched Camaro. The fallout generates situational incongruity, plus some wry quips: Laura (Luz Nicolás) finds herself being lectured by her teenage daughter, Kelly (Samantha Ríos), who is aghast at her mother’s spending on lingerie. Denis (Carlos Castillo) observes that, when an old flame asks whether you are happy, “your answer is automatic, imaginary, arousing, dangerous, passionate, young and hopeful, meaning the answer is no.” (The play is performed in Spanish with English surtitles.) The serviceable humor in “La Foto” sometimes cedes to affecting seriousness as Laura and Denis reveal their worries about aging. Unfortunately Ott, a Washington-based Venezuelan playwright, undermines the play’s effectiveness by devoting too much fleeting attention to too many characters, most of whom (a major exception being Denis) are more circumstance than personality. Figures such as Kelly, or Denis’s wife, Thais (María Peyramaure), and teenage son, Fran (José González), surge to the fore and then recede without sufficient dramaturgical payoff. The split focus is surely aimed at emphasizing how one individual’s thoughtless action can affect many other people. But it would have been better to make this point in a way that did not obscure whose story “La Foto” is principally telling. The production’s pronounced comic style adds some zest. Castillo’s Denis sometimes moves with rubbery clownishness, his neck at one point seeming to recede into his collar. Along similar lines, when González’s Fran hears a parental decree that he use his mother’s Toyota, not his father’s sexy Camaro, for a driver’s-license test, the boy flings himself to his knees in despair. Setting off such warm, broad humor is Jessica Cancino’s spare scenic design, dominated by panels that look like giant cellphones. Christopher Annas-Lee’s lighting sometimes adds to the aesthetic, pinning characters in a momentary spotlight that evokes a camera flash. It’s an austere look, and fittingly so, underscoring the predicament of foolish, yearning, regretful humans trapped in an unforgiving gone-viral reality.   La Foto (A Selfie Affair) by Gustavo Ott. Directed by Abel López; projections design, Christopher Annas-Lee; costumes, Moyenda Kulemeka; sound, David Crandall; properties, Tony Koehler. With Karen Morales. In Spanish with English surtitles. English translation by Heather McKay. About 100 minutes. Tickets: $30-45. Through Feb. 25 at GALA Theatre, 3333 14th St. NW. Call 202-234-7174 or visit galatheatre.org.  