
Welcome to the month of October folks! We’re in the fourth quarter of the year now, which is crazy to think about, right? It’s the point in the year where fall festival season dovetails into the awards season, with the precursors on their way before too long. As such, the throng of Oscar hopefuls is coming in a bigger way next month, though there are still some October releases that are definitely vying for the Academy to notice them. I’ve collected the top releases for this month and shared them with you below, so check them out and stay tuned for more on many of these. Especially a couple of these cases, this is just the beginning for discussion of them…
Here now are the best cinematic bets for the month of October:
10. Wonderstruck – Todd Haynes’ latest is, at least in my mind, fairly underwhelming. Some are definite fans though, and it’s admittedly interesting to see him tackle children’s fare. I doubt it’ll be a contender, but fans of his will likely dig it, or a the very least appreciate it.
9. Breathe – The directorial debut of Andy Serkis is a tearjerker biopic. Claire Foy and Andrew Garfield will likely be in play for Oscar nods, even if the film is a bit on the dry side. Serkis has a career behind the camera though, as this is pretty polished work. Oddly though, I didn’t cry once.
8. Professor Marston & the Wonder Women – One of the films to really benefit from the Toronto International Film Festival is this unusual biopic. Especially with Wonder Woman being one of the year’s big hits, this could certainly capitalize on that. Stay tuned to see how it does…
7. Una – Rooney Mara and Ben Mendelsohn are phenomenal in this deeply disturbing film. I might write more about this one later on in the week, but it’s about as hard a sell as it gets. The material is just so dark and potentially upsetting. Still, it’s an acting clinic on display.
6. Suburbicon – The latest George Clooney directing endeavor pairs him with the Coen Brothers as co-writers. Matt Damon assists in the satire, along with the likes of Oscar Isaac and Julianne Moore. Festival buzz on this one was middling, but perhaps it’s going to have a comeback in general release?
5. The Killing of a Sacred Deer – This pitch black film is the latest from Yorgos Lanthimos. I saw it last week and am still sort of figuring out what I think of it. Colin Farrell and Nicole Kidman pair up again this year and make one hell of an unusual couple in this one. The Lobster though, this is decidedly not. More on it in a week or two…
4. Thank You For Your Service – A potential awards season X factor, this one hopes to get Miles Teller his first Academy Award nom. The writer behind American Sniper makes his directorial debut here. No one seems to have seen it though, so make of that what you will. Honestly, it could go either way. I’m curious though, that’s for sure.
3. Jigsaw – Scoff if you must, but I’ve long been a fan of the Saw franchise. This reboot/sequel could be a lot of fun. It’s the opposite of awards fare, for sure. But hey, you know the saying, right? If it’s Halloween (or in this case, late in the month of October), it must be Saw!
2. Blade Runner 2049 – I saw this last week and was shocked at how great it turned out to be. It’s actually one of 2017’s most interesting films. Denis Villeneuve thoroughly improves on Ridley Scott’s original, and thankfully so. Harrison Ford does quite good work here, while Ryan Gosling pulls off something completely different than he normally attempts. Don’t miss it.
1. The Florida Project – Without question one of the best movies of the year so far, I’ll have a full piece on it very soon, maybe even tomorrow, so be on the lookout for that. It should be an Oscar contender, at least for Willem Dafoe in Best Supporting Actor. Sit tight for a write up on it before the week is out…
Honorable Mentions: 78/52: Hitchcock’s Shower Scene, Brawl in Cell Block 99, BPM (Beats Per Minute), The Foreigner, Geostorm, Goodbye Christopher Robin, Marshall, The Mountain Between Us, Novitiate, The Snowman, The Square, and Walking Out

Be sure to check out these various films all throughout the month of October!
