
Yesterday, some really interesting news began to spread throughout Hollywood. When it comes to some filmmakers, even the mere speculation that a new idea is percolating brings with it a rush of anticipation Apparently, the next movie project from Quentin Tarantino is closer than we think, and may actually be about Sharon Tate and the Charles Manson/Manson Family Murders. This would mark an original work by Tarantino, though one more clearly rooted in historical fact than any before. The true life tragedy, in which cult leader Manson ordered a number of his maniacal followers to attack the guests at a house in a swanky Los Angeles neighborhood, is terrifying. The insane followers brutally murdered everyone who was at the home, including actress Tate, who was eight months pregnant at the time and married to filmmaker Roman Polanski.
Rumor has it that Tarantino has this planned for his next turn behind the camera and is meeting with some big names, some of whom he’s familiar with, some who he isn’t. Apparently, he met with Margot Robbie about playing Tate, which is pretty excellent casting, while the leads (though we don’t know who they’d be playing) might end up being Jennifer Lawrence and Brad Pitt. The former almost worked with him on The Hateful Eight and the latter did on Inglourious Basterds. Pitt as Manson? If so, that would be something. More realistically, look for him to be a detective investigating the murders. Of course, Samuel L. Jackson is apparently eyed for a part as well. Whether you know about the story or would be going in fresh, this is baity stuff for QT to be tackling.
Depending on how this turns out, could we see Oscar finally go for Tarantino in the big categories? Of course, he already has a pair of Academy Awards, winning Best Original Screenplay for both Pulp Fiction and Django Unchained. Still, despite a few Best Director nominations and his films contending for a couple of Best Picture citations, he’s never taken home either of the big prizes. That certainly could change here if this turns into something special. Ditto for long time cohorts in the cast like Jackson. Really, the possibilities are endless. It’s no surprise that A-listers all around will be interested in participating in this one.
As a bonus, here is how I would rank Tarantino’s directorial filmography so far:
9. Jackie Brown
8. Reservoir Dogs
7. The Hateful Eight
6. Death Proof
5. Django Unchained
4. Kill Bill Vol. 2
3. Kill Bill Vol. 1
2. Inglourious Basterds
1. Pulp Fiction
(Obviously, you could combine both volumes of Kill Bill into one selection and it would slot in pretty clearly)
With the filmmaker himself having mentioned on multiple occasions that he’s eventually planning to retire from feature directing, this either gives us another work of his to possibly enjoy or moves the clock forward. That remains to be seen, but tackling something like this is so unexpected for the auteur that you have to stand up and take notice, even at this ridiculously early juncture. Anything really can happen still, and who knows, maybe this isn’t even his next project, but count me in if or when it is. Quentin and Manson could be an incredible and incredibly compelling cinematic match.
Basically, Tarantino has us excited for something new from his unique moviemaking mind, and that’s always a good thing in my book. Just knowing that he’s finished a new screenplay is kind of a red letter date in Hollywood whenever it happens. I’m sure The Weinstein Company is thrilled, with Harvey Weinstein and his brother Bob Weinstein ready to try to ride this script into an award winning film. Obviously, as things develop, we’ll have it for you, so sit tight in the meantime. We might only be another year or so out from Tarantino unleashing his latest cinematic present on to the world. Be excited folks…
Stay tuned to see how this potential new project for Tarantino turns out!
