
After a short tease posted by none other than star Jessica Chastain herself on Twitter yesterday, we now have the Trailer for Molly’s Game. This drama marks the directorial debut of screenwriter Aaron Sorkin. The pairing of these two seemed like it would create real sparks, and judging by this Trailer, that is certainly the case. You’ll be able to check it out at the bottom of this piece (you must know the drill by now), but before that, we need to discuss the film a bit. This could be a real big Oscar player when all is said and done in 2017…
The movie is an adaptation of Molly Bloom’s memoir. It’s described thusly: “The true story of an Olympic-class skier who ran the world’s most exclusive high-stakes poker game and became an FBI target. Her players included movie stars, business titans and unbeknownst to her, the Russian mob.” The Trailer showcases Molly (Chastain) going from a mere assistant in an underground poker game to running notorious ones on both coasts. Her clientele was exclusively high class, including the famous (Michael Cera playing a celebrity of some sort) and, apparently, mobsters. When the FBI (led by Kevin Costner here) comes down on her, she’s defended by a skeptical attorney (Idris Elba). Sorkin adapted Bloom’s memoir and directs here, as previously mentioned. Also in the cast are the likes of Bill Camp, Brian d’Arcy James, Graham Greene, Samantha Isler, Joe Keery, Madison McKinley, Natalie Krill, Chris O’Dowd, Rachel Skarsten, Jeremy Strong, and more. Daniel Pemberton contributes the score, while cinematography is by Charlotte Bruus Christensen.
From the looks of it, this is a high stakes (no pun intended) drama with juicy material for Chastain to sink her teeth into. Furthermore, not only does it sound like Sorkin has his vintage dialogue in play, but also a strong cinematic eye. He’s already arguably the best scribe in Hollywood, so if he proves to be a high quality director as well…watch out. Sorkin as an A-list filmmaker would be something special indeed. This is the first step towards that. Chastain stands front and center, but Cera, Costner, and Elba seem to have plum roles as well. There’s no shortage of avenues for voters to embrace this one if they see fit.
Speaking of awards, Molly’s Game seems like an easy sell to the Academy. Assuming the full product has the goods, look for an across the board campaign. Efforts will undoubtedly be made in Best Picture, Best Director (for Sorkin), Best Actress (for Chastain), Best Supporting Actor (for Cera, Costner, and/or Elba), Best Adapted Screenplay (for Sorkin as well), Best Film Editing, and Best Original Score, at minimum. Without too much trouble, this could get into Picture, Actress for Chastain, and Adapted Screenplay for Sorkin. Hell, it really does seem like she’ll be the one to beat for the Oscar. Could Chastain run away with Best Actress? I wouldn’t write off the possibility.

You can see the Molly’s Game Trailer next, and it’s one to really enjoy. The film doesn’t open until November 22nd, but just today was added to the Toronto International Film Festival slate, so that’s a good sign. Especially if it stands out from the rest of the pack, this should be a player. The movie looks supremely enjoyable, with Chastain absolutely killing it. Scope out the Trailer and whet your appetite for the combination of Chastain and Sorkin. Sit tight for more too, as I have no doubt we’ll be talking about it a lot between now and the end of November, if not beyond to the end of the Oscar season…
Here now is the Trailer for Molly’s Game:

Stay tuned for lots more to come on Molly’s Game over the next few months!
