
It has been a really good time for Trailers lately. The latest in this seemingly endless line of promising looks at potential Oscar fare is Call Me By Your Name, which was the talk of the Sundance Film Festival earlier this year. The flick could very well be the independent title of 2017, prestige wise. If nothing else, it appears like a powerful and untraditional romance. My hunch is that voters will absolutely eat it up. There’s a lot to like here, to say the least. We’ll be showing you the Trailer to the film at the end of the piece, but first, let us go ahead and dig into it a little bit.
The movie is a period romantic drama, based off of the 2007 novel of the same name. Set in Northern Italy during the summer of 1983, the story follows the enamored connection between an American expatriate named Oliver (Armie Hammer) living in the country and the American student (Timothée Chalamet) studying abroad with his family. The two unexpectedly share an entire summer that will change their lives. Food, music, and an unforgettable romance ensue. Luca Guadagnino directs the adaptation penned by James Ivory. In addition to Chalamet and Hammer, Michael Stuhlbarg has a central role. The cast also includes Vanda Capriolo, Amira Casar, Victoire Du Bois, Esther Garrel, Antonio Rimoldi, Peter Spears, and more. Cinematography is by Sayombhu Mukdeeprom. By all accounts, the main trio are outstanding. 
Between the raves out of Park City at Sundance and the look of this Trailer, something very powerful is apparently in store for us. Chalamet, Hammer, and Stuhlbarg scored excellent notices, with Hammer especially potentially being well on his way to heavy Oscar contention. Academy Award potential aside (that comes in the next paragraph), there’s also been statements made that this is the next Brokeback Mountain. If it turns out half as moving, that will be very special indeed. There’s a chance that the age difference could be an issue for some, but on the festival circuit it didn’t seem to be a problem. Now, let’s talk Oscars a bit, since right as it debuted, pundits started proclaiming it one to watch out for.
There stands a good chance that Call Me By Your Name will be a big time awards contender. Sony Pictures Classics will have a full court press planned, with campaigns in Best Picture, Best Director (for Guadagnino), Best Actor (for Chalamet and/or Hammer), Best Supporting Actor (for Hammer and/or Stuhlbarg), Best Adapted Screenplay (for Ivory), Best Cinematography, and Best Film Editing, at the very least. Depending on category placement, some have speculated that Hammer could get nominated for this one with ease. Time will tell, but watch out for this one to potentially slip into Best Picture and move quickly up the ranks. We shall see, obviously. There’s just reason to be bullish on the film.
You can see the Trailer next, but it would be very surprising if Call Me By Your Name doesn’t at least make a decent showing during the precursor season. It will be hitting around Thanksgiving, so there’s plenty of time to see how this one fares over the next few months. This Trailer will have to suffice for now, but it’s hard to watch it and not want to see the whole thing immediately. The vibe is incredibly seductive. Guadagnino couldn’t stick the landing with something vaguely similar, vibe wise, with A Bigger Splash, but I’m also in the minority in not loving that one. Hopefully this one is better. Anyway, check out the Trailer and sit tight for more on this one between now and late November…
Here now is the Trailer for Call Me By Your Name:

Stay tuned for plenty more on Call Me By Your Name all season long!
