
dick clark productions announced today that Oscar winning actress Kate Winslet will receive the “Hollywood Actress Award” for her work in the Woody Allen film, Wonder Wheel, as a beleaguered wife to a middle-aged carousel operator in the 1950’s on Coney Island, and Oscar nominated Jake Gyllenhall will receive the “Hollywood Actor Award” for his riveting and inspiring performance as Boston marathon bombing survivor Jeff Bauman in David Gordon Green’s Stronger. 
The 2017 “Hollywood Film Awards,” known as the official launch of the awards season®, will be hosted by actor and comedian James Corden for the third consecutive year and will take place at The Beverly Hilton in Beverly Hills, CA, on Sunday, November 5, 2017. The ceremony, which honors the most acclaimed films and actors while previewing highly anticipated films and talent for the upcoming year, also acknowledges artists in the categories of Cinematography, Visual Effects, Film Composing, Costume Design, Editing, Production Design, Sound, and Makeup & Hairstyling. In its 21-year history, more than 120 of the “Hollywood Film Awards” honorees have gone on to garner Oscar nominations and/or wins. This year’s ceremony will benefit MPTF, which supports the entertainment community in living and aging well, with dignity and purpose, and in helping each other in times of need.
ABOUT THE HONOREES
KATE WINSLET – Academy Award winning actress, Kate Winslet has brought to life some of cinema’s most captivating and memorable roles.  Her resumé consists of critically and commercially acclaimed work as well as a span of awards and honors that illustrate Kate’s talent and solidify her a permanent place in cinema history.  Kate won her first Academy Award, after a stunning past 5 nominations, for her role as Hanna Schmitz in Stephen Daldry’s 2008 “The Reader” directed by Stephen Daldry.  Kate also won a Golden Globe, SAG, BAFTA, and Critics’ Choice Award, among many others, for the role. Kate also starred that year in “Revolutionary Road,” which reteamed her with “Titanic” co-star Leonardo DiCaprio.  “Revolutionary Road,” based on the critically acclaimed novel by Richard Yates was directed by Sam Mendes.  Kate won a Golden Globe and received many nominations for her portrayal of April Wheeler. 

JAKE GYLLENHAAL – An Academy Award-nominated actor, JAKE GYLLENHAAL has established himself as one of the finest actors working in film and on stage.  Working with some of Hollywood’s greatest filmmakers in both independent and studio films, Gyllenhaal starred in Ang Lee’s classic “Brokeback Mountain,” for which he received an Oscar® nomination and won a BAFTA for Best Supporting Actor; Bong Joon-ho’s “Okja;” David Ayer’s “End of Watch;” Antoine Fuqua’s boxing drama “Southpaw;” Dennis Villeneuve’s highly acclaimed films “Prisoners” and “Enemy;” Richard Kelly’s cult hit “Donnie Darko;” David Fincher’s “Zodiac;” Sam Mendes’ “Jarhead;” Nicole Holofcener’s “Lovely and Amazing;” Ed Zwick’s “Love and Other Drugs,” for which he received a Golden Globe nomination, and Tom Ford’s “Nocturnal Animals,” for which he earned a BAFTA nomination.  Some of his stage work include “Sunday in the Park with George”; “Constellations” (*Drama Desk Award); “Little Shop of Horrors”; “If There Is I Haven’t Found It Yet”; and “This is Our Youth”(Evening Standard Award).
Previously announced honorees include the cast of The Big Sick including Kumail Nanjiani, Zoe Kazan, Holly Hunter and Ray Romano for “Hollywood Comdey Ensemble Award”; Jamie Bell for “New Hollywood Actor Award” for Film Stars Don’t Die in Liverpool; musicians Diane Warren, Common and Andra Day for the original song, “Stand Up For Something” with music by Diane Warren, lyrics by Diane Warren and Common and performed by Andra Day featuring Common from the film Marshall for “Hollywood Song Award”; Blade Runner 2049 producers Andrew S. Kosove, Broderick Johnson and Cynthia Sikes Yorkin for “Hollywood Producer Award”; The Disaster Artist screenwriters Scott Neustadter and Michael H. Weber for “Hollywood Screenwriter Award”; Coco for “Hollywood Animation Award”; the cast of Mudbound including Carey Mulligan, Garrett Hedlund, Mary J. Blige, Jason Mitchell, Jason Clarke, Rob Morgan and Jonathan Banks for the “Hollywood Breakout Ensemble Award”; Sam Rockwell for “Hollywood Supporting Actor Award” for his role in Three Billboards Outside Ebbing, Missouri; Allison Janney for “Hollywood Supporting Actress Award” for her role in I, Tonya; Mary J. Blige for “Hollywood Breakout Performance Actress Award” for her work in the film Mudbound; Timothée Chalamet for “Hollywood Breakout Performance Actor Award” for his role in the film Call Me By Your Name; and the cast of I, Tonya, including Margot Robbie, Allison Janney, Sebastian Stan, Paul Walter Hauser, Julianne Nicholson and Caitlin Carver for the “Hollywood Ensemble Award.”
Additional honorees for the 21st Annual “Hollywood Film Awards” will be announced in the coming weeks.
CHEAT TWEET: Kate Winslet and Jake Gyllenhaal will be honored at the 21st Annual @hollywoodawards on November 5th! hfas.news/honorees6 #HFAs
For the latest news, follow the “Hollywood Film Awards” on social and join the conversation by using the official hashtag for the show, #HollywoodAwards. 
Twitter: @HollywoodAwards
Facebook: Facebook.com/HollywoodAwards
Instagram: @hollywoodawards
Tumblr: hollywoodawards.tumblr.com
Snapchat: hollywoodawards
About dick clark productions
dick clark productions (dcp) is the world’s largest producer and proprietor of televised live event entertainment programming with the “Academy of Country Music Awards,” “American Music Awards,” “Billboard Music Awards,” “Golden Globe Awards,” “Dick Clark’s New Year’s Rockin’ Eve with Ryan Seacrest,” “Hollywood Film Awards” and the “Streamy Awards.” Weekly television programming includes “So You Think You Can Dance” from 19 Entertainment and dcp. dcp also owns one of the world’s most unique and extensive entertainment archive libraries with more than 55 years of award-winning shows, historic programs, specials, performances and legendary programming. For additional information, visit www.dickclark.com.  
ABOUT THE HOLLYWOOD FILM AWARDS® 
The Hollywood Film Awards®, founded in 1997, were created to celebrate Hollywood and launch the awards season. The recipients of the awards are selected by an Advisory Team for their body of work and/or a film(s) that is to be released during the calendar year. For additional information, visit www.hollywoodawards.com.
SHOW MEDIA CREDENTIALS
To apply for media credentials to cover the 21st Annual “Hollywood Film Awards” please go here. Submissions for credentials will stay open until 6pm PT on Friday, October 27, 2017. 
