
Just a few hours ago, not only did the first (rave) reviews out of the Venice Film Festival hit for Downsizing, a Teaser Trailer has popped up on the web for Alexander Payne’s latest movie as well. Not only has Payne put out something timely and supposedly top notch, it also represents something completely new for the filmmaker. That recipe may be perfect for Oscar attention, but more on that later. We have the Trailer to share with you at the end of the post, so read on for further details about the flick and then check out your first look at it as well!
The film is a high concept comedy with a science fiction baseline. The official synopsis presents things as such: “When scientists discover how to shrink humans to five inches tall as a solution to over-population, Paul (Matt Damon) and his wife Audrey (Kristen Wiig) decide to abandon their stressed lives in order to get small and move to a new downsized community — a choice that triggers life-changing adventures.” I’m hooked! Furthermore, once Paul is shrunken, he begins an adventure that includes folks like Gong Jiang (Hong Chau), who change his outlook on life. Payne co-writes with longtime partner Jim Taylor and directs here. The top tier supporting cast includes Laura Dern, Neil Patrick Harris, Rolf Lassgard, Udo Kier, Margo Martindale, Jason Sudeikis, and Christoph Waltz, among others. Phedon Papamichael handles the cinematography, while Rolfe Kent provides the score.
From the looks of the initial Venice reviews, this is something very special. The Teaser only introduces you to the characters, but it’s more than enough to make you want to see a lot more, ASAP. Payne sets up the concept and world, but leaves the rest for you to discover later. Early word has Damon being terrific as an everyman, while Chau seems to steal the show. Players in the acting categories? We’ll see, but as I mention below, you should watch out for them. At the very least, we’re in for something very entertaining. The added bonus of potential Oscar glory only makes it even more interesting.
Awards wise, look for Downsizing to be a player across the board. Campaigns are assured in Best Picture, Best Director (for Payne), Best Actor (for Damon), Best Actress (for Wiig), Best Supporting Actor (for Waltz), Best Supporting Actress (for Chau), Best Original Screenplay (for Payne and Taylor), Best Production Design, Best Cinematography, Best Film Editing, Best Original Score, and Best Visual Effects. Some category placement for the acting group may still need to be determined, but between the performances, the filmmaking, and the below the line potential, we might have a huge contender on our hands now. It certainly seems to be one that voters can easily get behind. Chau, Damon, Payne’s direction, and the film itself might even be setting themselves up for wins. We shall see.
You can see the Downsizing Teaser Trailer next, and of course, the full Trailer is still to come, but this just became an absolute must see. It won’t be out until December 22nd, but that can’t come soon enough. The awards season may have a huge new (or is it more appropriately a “tiny”?) contender on our hands, and that’s delightful to know. Payne is always a threat for awards, and that will again be the case here. Give the Teaser a look and sit tight for lots more on this one. Downsizing just became one of the most interesting 2017 titles out there, at least in my book. Check out the first look and see if it did the same for you…
Here now is the Teaser Trailer for Downsizing:

Stay tuned for more on Downsizing as the season progresses!
