
Earlier this week, a Trailer hit the web for auteur Guillermo del Toro’s next film, the unique looking The Shape of Water. The filmmaker is one of the more singular storytellers in the business, never taking an obvious route. This hybrid creature feature/love story is unlike anything else out there in the winter months. What that means? Who knows? For now, it will hope to be an awards vehicle while also attempting to make some money. You’ll be able to see the Trailer later on in this piece, but first, we’ll be diving in to talk about just what this thing might be.
The movie is a fantasy, mixing science fiction and romantic drama. The description for this one is that it’s an other-worldly fairy tale, set in 1963 against the backdrop of the Cold War in America. Elisa (Sally Hawkins) is a woman trapped in a life of silence and isolation, spending her days working within a hidden high-security government laboratory. A lonely woman, Elisa’s life is changed forever when she and her co-worker Zelda (Octavia Spencer) discover a secret classified experiment. That experiment is, well…you’ll see for yourself. Suffice to say, Elisa’s life will never be the same again. As mentioned above, del Toro directs, while also co-writing with Vanessa Taylor. The supporting players here include Richard Jenkins, Doug Jones, Michael Shannon, Michael Stuhlbarg, and more. The ubiquitous Alexandre Desplat contributes the score, while cinematography is by Dan Laustsen.
Just going by this Trailer, this appears to be quirky yet somewhat classical at the same time. Hawkins seems to be in fine form, while Shannon looks to be having a real good time in this one. My hunch is that the flick will end up working as much as a love story as a creature feature. The former is what will set it apart from the crowd, as we’ve seen del Toro do the latter a number of times in his career. Nothing here blew me away, but I’m curious to see more. That’s somewhat of a win on its own, isn’t it?
Awards wise, The Shape of Water might be a tough sell for Oscar. Still, I’m sure the powers that be will try. Look for a campaign at least in Best Picture, Best Director (for del Toro), Best Actress (for Hawkins), Best Supporting Actor (for Jenkins, Jones, Shannong, and/or Stuhlbarg), Best Supporting Actress (for Spencer), Best Original Screenplay (for del Toro and Taylor), Best Production Design, Best Cinematography, Best Film Editing, and Best Visual Effects. Aside from maybe a technical category or two, this seems like a long shot. The techs represent a fighting chance, however, so there’s that. A lot remains to be seen here, but fairy tale type fare just doesn’t appear to be up the alley of today’s voter.
The Shape of Water looks like a unique 2017 release, that’s for sure. Whether you love or hate the look of it, you can’t deny that. Perhaps del Toro has crafted something irresistible? We’ll find out in December, but until then, it’s at best an X factor. It’s one of the final releases of the year, so it’ll be hitting with all of the last minute Oscar hopefuls. We’ll be looking into it more then, without question, but for now, all we have is a Trailer. Take a look at it below and see what you think. Sit tight for another take on this one in the months to come…
Here now is the Trailer for The Shape of Water:

Stay tuned for more on The Shape of Water between now and its release on December 8th!
