
dick clark productions announced today that the Disney•Pixar film Coco, directed by Lee Unkrich, co-directed by Adrian Molina and starring Anthony Gonzalez, Gael García Bernal and Benjamin Bratt,  will receive the “Hollywood Animation Award,” while Dee Rees directed Netflix film, Mudbound, starring Carey Mulligan, Garrett Hedlund, Mary J. Blige, Jason Mitchell and more, will receive the prestigious “Hollywood Breakout Ensemble Award,” at the 21st Annual “Hollywood Film Awards.” 
The 2017 “Hollywood Film Awards,”known as the official launch of the awards season®, will be hosted by actor and comedian James Corden for the third consecutive year and will take place at The Beverly Hilton in Beverly Hills, CA, on Sunday, November 5, 2017. 
The ceremony, which honors the most acclaimed films and actors while previewing highly anticipated films and talent for the upcoming year, also acknowledges artists in the categories of Cinematography, Visual Effects, Film Composing, Costume Design, Editing, Production Design, Sound and Makeup & Hairstyling. In its 21-year history, more than 120 of the “Hollywood Film Awards” honorees have gone on to garner Oscar nominations and/or wins. This year’s ceremony will benefit MPTF, which supports the entertainment community in living and aging well, with dignity and purpose, and in helping each other in times of need.

ABOUT THE HONOREES 
Coco – Despite his family’s frustrating generations-old ban on music, Miguel (voice of Anthony Gonzalez) is inspired by his idol, the late, great musician  Ernesto de la Cruz (voice of Benjamin Bratt)—and dreams of nothing else. Following a mysterious and otherworldly chain of events, Miguel meets charming trickster Héctor (voice of Gael García Bernal), and, together, they set off on an adventure of music and mystery, resulting in the most unusual family reunion.
Mudbound – Set in the rural American South during World War II, director Dee Rees tells an epic story of two families pitted against one another by a ruthless social hierarchy, yet bound together by the shared farmland of the Mississippi Delta. The McAllan family, newly transplanted from the quiet civility of Memphis, is unprepared for the harsh demands of farming. Despite the grandiose dreams of Henry (Jason Clarke), his wife Laura (Carey Mulligan) struggles to keep the faith in her husband’s losing venture. Meanwhile, Hap and Florence Jackson (Rob Morgan, Mary J. Blige) — fellow sharecroppers who have worked the land for generations — work to build a small dream of their own despite the rigidly enforced social barriers they face. The war upends both families’ plans as their returning loved ones, Jamie McAllan (Garrett Hedlund) and Ronsel Jackson (Jason Mitchell), forge a fast but uneasy friendship over their shared experience as soldiers in Europe.
Previously announced honorees include Sam Rockwell for “Hollywood Supporting Actor Award” for his role in Three Billboards Outside Ebbing, Missouri, Allison Janney for “Hollywood Supporting Actress Award” for her role in I, Tonya, Mary J. Blige for “Hollywood Breakout Performance Actress Award” for her work in the film Mudbound; Timothée Chalamet for “Hollywood Breakout Performance Actor Award” for his role in the film Call Me By Your Name; and the cast of I, Tonya including Margot Robbie, Allison Janney, Sebastian Stan, Paul Walter Hauser, Julianne Nicholson and Caitlin Carver for the “Hollywood Ensemble Award.”
Additional honorees for the 21st Annual “Hollywood Film Awards” will be announced in the coming weeks.
CHEAT TWEET: .@pixarcoco will receive the Animation Award & #Mudbound will receive the Breakout Ensemble Award at the #HFAs: hfas.news/honorees1 
For the latest news, follow the “Hollywood Film Awards” on social and join the conversation by using the official hashtag for the show, #HollywoodAwards. 
Twitter: @HollywoodAwards
Facebook: Facebook.com/HollywoodAwards
Instagram: @hollywoodawards
Tumblr: hollywoodawards.tumblr.com
Snapchat: hollywoodawards
About dick clark productions
dick clark productions (dcp) is the world’s largest producer and proprietor of televised live event entertainment programming with the “Academy of Country Music Awards,” “American Music Awards,” “Billboard Music Awards,” “Dick Clark’s New Year’s Rockin’ Eve with Ryan Seacrest,” “Golden Globe Awards,” “Miss America,” “Hollywood Film Awards” and the “Streamy Awards.” Weekly television programming includes “So You Think You Can Dance” from 19 Entertainment and dcp. dcp also owns one of the world’s most unique and extensive entertainment archive libraries with more than 55 years of award-winning shows, historic programs, specials, performances and legendary programming. For additional information, visit www.dickclark.com.  
ABOUT THE HOLLYWOOD FILM AWARDS® 
The Hollywood Film Awards®, founded in 1997, were created to celebrate Hollywood and launch the awards season. The recipients of the awards are selected by an Advisory Team for their body of work and/or a film(s) that is to be released during the calendar year. For additional information, visit www.hollywoodawards.com.
