
Fans of filmmaker Darren Aronofsky got a treat (or more aptly, a tease) last week when a Teaser Trailer was dropped for his next film, the mysteriously titled mother!. Now, we have the Full Trailer for mother! to parse through, as it hit the web yesterday morning. It doesn’t totally clear things up, but at least the flick is giving a glimpse of itself. Considering how it’s only weeks away from fall festival debuts as well as it’s release date next month, it’s about time too. Aronofsky is a true talent, so anything he does is noteworthy. The question is just if Oscar can get behind it or not.
The movie is a horror film, and a mysterious looking one at that. For months, the only plot description made available has said “A couple’s relationship is tested when uninvited guests arrive at their home, disrupting their tranquil existence.” That couple is played by Jennifer Lawrence (the protagonist it seems) and Javier Bardem. Apparently, a strange man (Ed Harris) arrives at their secluded home and is quickly invited by the husband to spend the night. The wife isn’t thrilled, and is only more troubled when the guest ends up bringing his spouse (Michelle Pfeiffer) into the home as well. From there, the guests continue to arrive, seemingly putting the woman in grave danger. Aronofsky writes and directs, while the supporting cast includes Jovan Adepo, Brian Gleeson, Domhnall Gleeson, Stephen McHattie, Stefan Simchowitz, Kristen Wiig, and more. Longtime Aronofsky cinematographer Matthew Libatique is at it again here, while this time, his composer will be Jóhann Jóhannsson. That’s a ton of talent, potentially elevating genre fare to something special.
From what you can tell in this Trailer, the film appears to be a trip. It’s as if Aronofsky thought up the craziest scary movie concept he could, recruited A-list talent, and went to town, with mother! as the end result. Lawrence looks very good here, as does everyone in the main cast. Still, it’s hard to tell what it’s actually about, and that could impact if it becomes a thing for voters or not. If they don’t go for it, it’s still an obvious must see. If they do, however, it stands a chance at being one of 2017’s most unique contenders.

Speculating about awards here is kind of a fool’s errand. This will either catch on with the Academy like Black Swan did, or it’ll be completely ignored like The Fountain was, for example. If mother! is an Oscar player, look for campaigns in Best Picture, Best Director (for Aronofsky), Best Actor (for Bardem), Best Actress (for Lawrence), Best Supporting Actor (for Harris), Best Supporting Actress (for Pfeiffer), Best Original Screenplay (also for Aronofsky), Best Cinematography, Best Film Editing, Best Original Score, and Best Visual Effects. The actors/actresses are probably the best bet, and we already know Lawrence is an Oscar favorite, so it mother! contends, it’s likely there. We shall see, though. Anything is possible.
You can see the mother! Trailer up next, which will undoubtedly make you even more curious about it. The film hits theaters on September 15th, so it’s a potential contender that we won’t have to wait long to find out about. In the meantime, the Trailer will have to suffice. The festivals will establish if it’s awards worthy or not, but this Trailer clearly establishes that it’s a must see, regardless. Take a gander at it and sit tight for plenty more. The next few weeks should tell us a lot about this one. By the end of September, it’ll either be DOA or on a lot of early prediction lists. I for one can’t wait to find out…
Here now is the mother! Trailer:

Stay tuned for much more on mother! in the weeks to come!
