
Early next month, the day before the Academy Awards are announced, the Film Independent Spirit Awards will go down. Most years, there’s some Oscar crossover, but the show also represents an opportunity to fete the “other” players in the race. There’s basically two versions of the show. One has Academy players compete for another honor, while the other sees the sorts of titles ignored by Oscar go up for glory. This year feels like a mix due to the eclectic mix of titles cited by the Academy. Usually, the Spirits represent a chance to look at what the nominees “should” be. This year, most of them cross over in a way that will delight true cinephiles.
Below you will see what I think the Spirit Awards will look like. By and large, it looks like a major competition between Call Me By Your Name, The Florida Project, Get Out, and Lady Bird. One thing we might see here, as opposed to with Oscar, is that voters might spread the love. The films, along with I, Tonya and Three Billboards Outside Ebbing, Missouri have a chance to all take home prizes. Factor in how this could be a last moment in the sun for The Big Sick, as well as first and last ones for the likes of Columbus, A Ghost Story, and Good Time, and you have a potential hodgepodge of winners. Right now, I have Call Me By Your Name doing the best of the bunch, but that’s just a hunch. This is notoriously a hard awards group to predict, especially when more than one contender also has Academy Award love attached to it. Simply put, this could go almost any which way…

Here now are my predictions for the Independent Spirit Awards:
Best Feature
1. Call Me By Your Name
2. Get Out
3. Lady Bird
4. The Florida Project
5. The Rider
Best Director
1. Jordan Peele – Get Out
2. Luca Guadagnino – Call Me By Your Name
3. Sean Baker – The Florida Project
4. Chloé Zhao – The Rider
5. Benny Safdie and Josh Safdie – Good Time
6. Jonas Carpignano – A Ciambra
Best First Feature
1. Columbus
2. Patti Cake$
3. Ingrid Goes West
4. Menashe
5. Oh Lucy!
Best Male Lead
1. Timothée Chalamet – Call Me By Your Name
2. Daniel Kaluuya – Get Out
3. Robert Pattinson – Good Time
4. Harris Dickinson – Beach Rats
5. James Franco – The Disaster Artist
Best Female Lead
1. Frances McDormand – Three Billboards Outside Ebbing, Missouri
2. Saoirse Ronan – Lady Bird
3. Margot Robbie – I, Tonya
4. Salma Hayek – Beatriz at Dinner
5. Regina Williams – Life and Nothing More
6. Shinobu Terajima – Oh Lucy!
Best Supporting Male
1. Sam Rockwell – Three Billboards Outside Ebbing, Missouri
2. Benny Safdie – Good Time
3. Armie Hammer – Call Me By Your Name
4. Barry Keoghan – The Killing of a Sacred Deer
5. Nnamdi Asomugha – Crown Heights
Best Supporting Female
1. Allison Janney – I, Tonya
2. Laurie Metcalf – Lady Bird
3. Holly Hunter – The Big Sick
4. Taliah Lennice Webster – Good Time
5. Lois Smith – Marjorie Prime
Best Screenplay
1. Lady Bird
2. Get Out
3. Three Billboards Outside Ebbing, Missouri
4. The Lovers
5. Beatriz at Dinner
A potential sixth: Mudbound
Best First Screenplay
1. The Big Sick
2. Columbus
3. Ingrid Goes West
4. Women Who Kill
5. Donald Cried
Best International Film
1. BPM (Beats Per Minute)
2. A Fantastic Woman
3. Loveless
4. Lady Macbeth
5. I Am Not a Witch
Best Documentary Feature
1. Faces Places
2. Last Men in Aleppo
3. Quest
4. The Departure
5. Motherland
Best Cinematography
1. Call Me By Your Name
2. Columbus
3. The Rider
4. The Killing of a Sacred Deer
5. Beach Rats
Best Editing
1. I, Tonya
2. Get Out
3. Call Me By Your Name
4. Good Time
5. The Rider
John Cassvetes Award (Given to the best feature made for under $500,000)
1. A Ghost Story
2. The Transfiguration
3. Dayveon
4. Life and Nothing More
5. Most Beautiful Island
Bonnie Award (Bonnie Tiburzi Caputo joined American Airlines in 1973 at age 24, becoming the first female pilot to fly for a major U.S. airline. In her honor, the inaugural Bonnie Award will recognize a mid-career female director with a $50,000 unrestricted grant, sponsored by American Airlines)
1. Chloé Zhao
2. Lynn Shelton
3. So Yong Kim
Jeep Truer Than Fiction Award (The 23rd annual Truer Than Fiction Award, funded by the Jeep brand, is presented to an emerging director of non-fiction features who has not yet received significant recognition. The award includes a $25,000 unrestricted grant funded by the Jeep brand)
1. Jonathan Olshefski (Director of Quest)
2. Jeff Unay (Director of The Cage Fighter)
3. Shevaun Mizrahi (Director of Distant Constellation)
Kiehl’s Someone to Watch Award (The 24th annual Someone to Watch Award, funded by Kiehl’s Since 1851, recognizes a talented filmmaker of singular vision who has not yet received appropriate recognition. The award includes a $25,000 unrestricted grant funded by Kiehl’s Since 1851)
1. Justin Chon (Director of Gook)
2. Amman Abbasi (Director of Dayveon)
3. Kevin Phillips (Director of Super Dark Times)
Piaget Producers Award (The 21st annual Producers Award, funded by Piaget, honors emerging producers who, despite highly limited resources, demonstrate the creativity, tenacity and vision required to produce quality, independent films. The award includes a $25,000 unrestricted grant funded by Piaget)
1. Summer Shelton
2. Giulia Caruso & Ki Jin Kim
3. Ben LeClair
Robert Altman Award (Given to one film’s director, casting director and ensemble cast)
Mudbound
Director: Dee Rees
Casting Directors: Billy Hopkins, Ashley Ingram
Ensemble Cast: Jonathan Banks, Mary J. Blige, Jason Clarke, Garrett Hedlund, Jason Mitchell, Rob Morgan, Carey Mulligan

Stay tuned for an update to these predictions before the show goes down next month!
