
Among modern day cult films, The Room stands tall. Not since The Rocky Horror Picture Show has a midnight movie captured audience adoration like Tommy Wiseau’s “masterpiece”. Even in Hollywood, it’s an iconic picture. As such, it was never a huge shock that a look at its inception was going to receive the cinematic treatment, especially after an acclaimed book about its making hit shelves. What’s surprising is that A-list talent has surrounded it from top to bottom, including A24 distributing. The Disaster Artist, as it’s known, made waves at SXSW and now has a Teaser Trailer to showcase, well in advance of its December release date. You can see the Teaser below, but first, a dive into Wiseau’s world!
For those of you who aren’t aware of the movie in any notable way, here’s a quick little primer. It’s a look at how an unlikely friendship bloomed between struggling actors Greg Sestero (Dave Franco) and Tommy Wiseau (James Franco). Their chance meeting in an acting class would allow Greg to observe the unique character that Tommy was, supremely untalented and perhaps the weirdest human being on the planet, but also wildly passionate about movies. It also would lead to Tommy casting Greg in a film he’d written, planned to direct, and also starred in. It was The Room, which has been called the Citizen Kane of bad movies and has usurped The Rocky Horror Picture Show in some ways as this generation’s midnight movie. The rest is history. The elder Franco directs an adaptation of Sestero’s book by scribes Scott Neustadter and Michael H Weber. Supporting players include Alison Brie, Zoey Deutch, Zac Efron, Ari Graynor, Melanie Griffith, Josh Hutcherson, Jason Mantzoukas, Christopher Mintz-Plasse, Seth Rogen, Sharon Stone, Jacki Weaver, and many more. Only a handful show up in this tease, but the chemistry already looks strong.
From the looks of it, this is going to be absolutely hilarious. The Trailer is just a quick Teaser, showing the ineptitude of Wiseau and the struggle that making every moment of The Room was. It builds to a comedy crescendo that made me laugh out loud. Franco’s aesthetic behind the camera simulates the picture well, while it all gives off a nice little Ed Wood vibe. Without question, Neustadter and Weber’s adaptation of Sestero’s book appears spot on. As for Franco as the filmmaker, he seems incredibly committed. That may end up serving the flick well come the winter when it seeks to become an offbeat entry into the precursor season.
In terms of awards, The Disaster Artist would initially seem on the surface like a pretty hard sell for A24, but some of the initial reporting out of SXSW back earlier this year speculated that it could be a player. A slyly targeted campaign, building off of perhaps another festival bow, would probably be the smartest way to go about doing it. That way, the chances in Best Picture, Best Director/Best Actor/Best Supporting Actor (for Franco), and Best Adapted Screenplay (for Neustadter and Weber). Franco in the Supporting category and the script seem like the safest ways to try and make a dent this year, but anything is possible. A lot will depend on how it’s received in the winter against more overt prestige fare. Right now, I have it slipping into Best Picture on a hunch, but that remains to be seen.
Even if Oscar doesn’t come calling, this appears like a special movie. The Disaster Artist appears, just with tis Teaser Trailer, to have captured what makes The Room the cult favorite that it is. You’ll be able to scope out the Trailer below, and obviously sit tight for lots more on this one. Whether the Academy takes a shine to it or not, this is a film that any cinema fan should be hotly anticipating. There’s a distinct possibility that this is something very amusing and highly enjoyable. Audiences at SXSW loved it, and in a few months, many more will be introduced to Wiseau and his passion project which was unlike any other…
Here now, in all its comedic glory, is the Teaser Trailer for The Disaster Artist:

Stay tuned for plenty more on The Disaster Artist between now and its December 1st release date!
