
Folks, we’ve reached a new point in the season. Now that we’re really getting into the heart of the fall months and pretty close to entering what is essentially the tail end of the 2017 movie release season, I wanted to take my first official crack this season at a set of Golden Globe predictions. In fact, I’d hoped to do this last week, but enough other news broke (plus the Blade Runner 2049 embargo lifting early) that it got delayed to these first days of October. As always, I’ll be mixing these in with Oscar predictions going forward, but early Globe picks are always of special interest to me, especially since sometimes you’re still guessing category placement and just what the tastes of the Hollywood Foreign Press Association will look like at the time. They’re almost impossible to accurately guess off the bat the first time around, but that little factoid has yet to stop me from trying all the same. Here goes nothing folks!
What you’ll notice below is that things more or less reflect how I also see the Academy Awards going, but with some slight changes here and there. Obviously, the Comedy or Musical categories open things up to some other contenders, though we won’t know for a bit still how certain contenders will decide to compete. Some players like I, Tonya, Last Flag Flying, and hree Billboards Outside Ebbing, Missouri could either be comedies or dramas. That will impact certain races, as you’ll see shortly. For now though, look to most of the presumed early frontrunners to also do well with the HFPA. Lots can and will change, but this is a snapshot of what it seems to be right here in the early fall. Oscar and the Globes don’t ever perfectly match, but one can undoubtedly inform the other, so just keep that in mind…

Here you go ladies and gentlemen, my initial look at how the Golden Globe awards could shape up:
Best Picture (Drama)
1. Dunkirk
2. Darkest Hour
3. The Post
4. The Shape of Water
5. Call Me By Your Name
If there’s a sixth: Wonder Wheel
If there’s a seventh: I, Tonya
Best Picture (Comedy or Musical)
1. Three Billboards Outside Ebbing, Missouri
2. The Disaster Artist
3. Battle of the Sexes
4. The Big Sick
5. The Greatest Showman
If there’s a sixth: Downsizing
If there’s a seventh: The Meyerowitz Stories (New and Selected)
Best Actor (Drama)
1. Gary Oldman – Darkest Hour
2. Daniel Day-Lewis – Phantom Thread
3. Jake Gyllenhaal – Stronger
4. Tom Hanks – The Post
5. Andrew Garfield – Breathe
If there’s a sixth: Jeremy Renner – Wind River
If there’s a seventh: Ryan Gosling – Blade Runner 2049
Best Actor (Comedy or Musical)
1. James Franco – The Disaster Artist
2. Steve Carell – Battle of the Sexes
3. Hugh Jackman – The Greatest Showman
4. Matt Damon – Downsizing
5. Kumail Nanjani – The Big Sick
If there’s a sixth: Adam Sandler – The Meyerowitz Stories (New and Selected)
If there’s a seventh: Sam Elliott – The Hero
Best Actress (Drama)
1. Margot Robbie – I, Tonya
2. Kate Winslet – Wonder Wheel
3. Jessica Chastain – Molly’s Game
4. Meryl Streep – The Post
5. Jennifer Lawrence – mother!
If there’s a sixth: Sally Hawkins – The Shape of Water
If there’s a seventh: Daniela Vega – A Fantastic Woman
Best Actress (Comedy or Musical)
1. Frances McDormand – Three Billboards Outside Ebbing, Missouri
2. Emma Stone – Battle of the Sexes
3. Judi Dench – Victoria & Abdul
4. Saoirse Ronan – Lady Bird
5. Zoe Kazan – The Big Sick
If there’s a sixth: Annette Bening – Film Stars Don’t Die in Liverpool
If there’s a seventh: Salma Hayek – Beatriz At Dinner
Best Supporting Actor
1. Willem Dafoe – The Florida Project
2. Bryan Cranston – Last Flag Flying
3. Sam Rockwell – Three Billboards Outside Ebbing, Missouri
4. Daniel Craig – Logan Lucky
5. Mark Rylance – Dunkirk
If there’s a sixth: Ben Mendelsohn – Darkest Hour
If there’s a seventh: Dustin Hoffman – The Meyerowitz Stories (New and Selected)
Best Supporting Actress
1. Allison Janney – I, Tonya
2. Laurie Metcalf – Lady Bird
3. Hong Chau – Downsizing
4. Michelle Pfeiffer – mother!
5. Claire Foy – Breathe 
If there’s a sixth: Michelle Williams – The Greatest Showman
If there’s a seventh: Holly Hunter – The Big Sick
Best Director
1. Christopher Nolan – Dunkirk
2. Guillermo del Toro – The Shape of Water
3. Steven Spielberg – The Post
4. Joe Wright – Darkest Hour
5. Woody Allen – Wonder Wheel
If there’s a sixth: Luca Guadagnino – Call Me By Your Name
If there’s a seventh: James Franco – The Disaster Artist
Best Screenplay
1. Molly’s Game
2. The Disaster Artist
3. The Shape of Water
4. Darkest Hour
5. Three Billboards Outside Ebbing, Missouri
If there’s a sixth: The Big Sick
If there’s a seventh: Call Me By Your Name
Best Animated Feature
1. Coco
2. Loving Vincent
3. Ferdinand
4. The LEGO Batman Movie
5. Cars 3
Best Original Score
1. Dunkirk
2. Star Wars: The Last Jedi
3. The Shape of Water
4. The Post
5. Darkest Hour
Best Original Song
1. The Greatest Showman
2. The Hero
3. Coco
4. Beauty and the Beast
5. Detroit
Best Foreign Film
1. First They Killed My Father
2. BPM: Beats Per Minute
3. Loveless
4. Happy Ending
5. The Square

Stay tuned for a brand new set of Academy Award predictions this month as well as another update to these early Golden Globe predictions sometime in the next month or so!
