
The 2017 ceremony, to be held Nov. 5, will make a contribution to the charity that supports entertainment industry workers.
The 21st annual Hollywood Film Awards, which will take place Nov. 5, will make a substantial yearly contribution to the Motion Picture and Television Fund, it was announced today by Dick Clark Productions, which produces the event.
“The Motion Picture and Television Fund does terrific work in the entertainment community. It is an honor and pleasure to contribute to those efforts,” said Allen Shapiro, CEO of Dick Clark Productions, which has overseen the awards since 2014, in announcing the initiative, which will be an annual commitment.

By John Sciulli/Getty Images
“MPTF supports over 5,000 entertainment industry families through a variety of services annually and depends on the support of everyone in our community to make these programs and services possible,” Jeffrey Katzenberg, MPTF Foundation chairman, noted.  “The generous support of Dick Clark Productions allows us to further our mission and provide a culture of caring to members of our industry in times of need.”
The ceremony, which will be held at the Beverly Hilton Hotel, has become a regular stop on the awards season calendar, as it recognizes the top talent among the year’s films – from actors, writers and directors to artists in the fields of cinematography, visual effects, film composing, costume design, editing, production design, sound and makeup & hairstyling. This year’s honorees have not yet been announced.
For the latest news, follow the “Hollywood Film Awards” on social and join the conversation by using the official hashtag for the show, #HollywoodAwards. 
Twitter: @HollywoodAwards
Facebook: Facebook.com/HollywoodAwards
Instagram: @hollywoodawards
Tumblr: hollywoodawards.tumblr.com
Snapchat: hollywoodawards
About dick clark productions
dick clark productions (dcp) is the world’s largest producer and proprietor of televised live event entertainment programming with the “Academy of Country Music Awards,” “American Music Awards,” “Billboard Music Awards,” “Dick Clark’s New Year’s Rockin’ Eve with Ryan Seacrest,” “Golden Globe Awards,” “Miss America,” “Hollywood Film Awards” and the “Streamy Awards.” Weekly television programming includes “So You Think You Can Dance” from 19 Entertainment and dcp. dcp also owns one of the world’s most unique and extensive entertainment archive libraries with more than 55 years of award-winning shows, historic programs, specials, performances and legendary programming. For additional information, visit www.dickclark.com.  
About “Hollywood Film Awards” 
The “Hollywood Film Awards,” founded in 1997, were created to celebrate Hollywood and launch the awards season. The recipients of the awards are selected by an Advisory Team for their body of work and/or a film(s) that is to be released during the calendar year. For additional information, visit www.hollywoodawards.com
