
Today is a Trailer roundup day folks! Yes, between this past weekend’s big Super Bowl spots, a notable new Teaser earlier this week, and an intriguing one dropping just today, it seemed like the perfect time to play a little bit of catch up. Below you’ll see a number of Trailers for a wide variety of 2018 releases. To be sure, not all of them will turn out to be winners (just look at how interesting the surprise Teaser and Trailer for The Cloverfield Paradox was, while the actual film was very disappointing), but these movies have got my interest at least. Behold them all below…
Here we go!

First up is Deadpool 2, which dropped a new Teaser just yesterday. This one introduced Cable, to be played by Josh Brolin, while giving us more of Ryan Reynolds’ title character Deadpool. Rhett Reese	and Paul Wernick have again written the screenplay, while David Leitch steps in to direct. Very little is known about the plot so far, but it does look like fun. As a big fan of the first one, count me in.
Behold the new look at Deadpool 2:


Second, we have Jurassic World: Fallen Kingdom. This one actually debuted during the Super Bowl, offering up an almost horror movie vibe to change up the pace for the franchise. Jeff Goldblum returns to the series, while Chris Pratt and Bryce Dallas Howard again star. J.A. Bayona directs, and yes, there appears to be a new dinosaur or two, including a fictionalized cross between the monster from Jurassic World and a velociraptor. It’ll be ridiculous, but it should also be an enjoyable thrill ride…
Take a gander at Jurassic World: Fallen Kingdom and its full Super Bowl Trailer:


The big game also gave us a look at Mission: Impossible – Fallout. Tom Cruise is back once again as spy Ethan Hunt, as you all know. It’s another race again time for his IMF team, with this instance being after a mission goes very wrong. Christopher McQuarrie returns as writer and director, something this franchise has never had before. If you dig Cruise and what he does as Hunt, this looks like another high quality version of it, plain and simple.
Here is Mission: Impossible – Fallout, in all of its glory:


Next up is another Super Bowl spot, this one for Solo: A Star Wars Story. I’ll post both the Super Bowl Teaser and the longer Trailer, but this was probably the highest profile of the first looks, since all the behind the scenes turmoil is out there. Removed from that, this does look closer to Rogue One: A Star Wars Story than the Saga installments, so mission accomplished for Ron Howard and company. Perhaps crisis averted? We’ll see in a few short months…
This is the Solo Teaser from Sunday night:

And this is the actual Trailer for Solo: A Star Wars Story. Enjoy:


Continuing that Sunday debut trend, this is from Avengers: Infinity War. Marvel is in full on Black Panther mode, but this is their baby, for sure. All of the heroes from the Marvel Cinematic Universe will be here fighting Thanos, with Captain America: The Winter Soldier and Captain America: Civil War filmmakers Anthony Russo and Joe Russo overseeing the action. The MCU has been building to this for about a decade, so all eyes will be on it to make sure the high standards are met. Bet agains Marvel at your own risk though, as this looks like a blast.
Take a look at the new Teaser that Avengers: Infinity War has launched at us:


Finally, we’ll wrap up, with Venom. This Teaser just dropped a few short hours ago, so it’s hot off the internet presses. We don’t get a shot of the suit on Tom Hardy, but rather a lot of him slinking around. Ruben Fleischer’s flick is a true X factor, as it’ll either spin off the Spider-Man franchise in a new and exciting way (complimenting Spidey in the way that Deadpool does for the X-Men) or seem like an ill advised cash grab. We’ll see in the fall, but for now, the Teaser is somewhat compelling…
This is the Teaser for Venom:

Stay tuned for more on all of these films!
