
Now that we’ve entered the second half of the year, the films will start to take two very distinct shapes. On one end of the spectrum will be the summer blockbusters, while on the other will be the smaller movies that are potentially looking to pick up some awards buzz. In fact, July is a perfect example of that. We have a Marvel movie and some action flicks, along with at least one title that wants to win Oscars. The films overall are pretty solid, which I can vouch for, having seen a good chunk of them. Read on for some recommendations…
Here now are what I think are the ten best bets for July:
10. Brigsby Bear – One of the odder titles to play at the Sundance Film Festival this year, for sure. This is a dramedy centered on a man adjusting (or not) to life without his favorite children’s show. It sounds weird, to say the least. It also was well received at Sundance, so this could be one to watch out for.
9. Landline – After the success that was Obvious Child, how could you not be excited for Jenny Slate to team up again with filmmaker Gillian Robespierre? Their latest collaboration wasn’t as beloved at Sundance, but I’m still very much in. I’ll be seeing it shortly, so look out for a piece before the month is out on the film.
8. To the Bone – The latest Netflix festival acquisition is this teen drama. Lily Collins is apparently very strong here, playing a young girl dealing with anorexia. Keanu Reeves received some strong notices too. This is another Sundance title, showcasing how often those January festival debuts end up as July releases.
7. Atomic Blonde – Charlize Theron in a kick ass action film? Those who have seen it love it, especially one staircase set sequence, in particular. John Wick co-director and upcoming Deadpool 2 director David Leitch helmed this one, solidifying his status as one of the genre’s best up and coming filmmakers. 
6. Valerian and the City of a Thousand Planets – Luc Besson’s ambitious science fiction flick is either going to be a smash hit or gigantic bomb. There’s really no in between here. Dane DeHaan and Cara Delevingne are the leads for this French comic book adaptation. Besson’s filmography is hit or miss, but this is a passion project for him. Fingers crossed he nailed it…
5. An Inconvenient Sequel: Truth to Power – A documentary sequel? Well, considering how timely Al Gore’s climate change doc still is, this makes sense. It debuted at, you guessed it, Sundance, and recently has been updating to include the United States pulling out of the Paris Climate Accord. Perhaps this will become our first true frontrunner for Best Documentary Feature?
4. War for the Planet of the Apes – About a week or two ago I spoke about how strong this sequel was. I’ll do so again later on this month when it hits screens, but in the meantime, a reminder that Matt Reeves knocked it out of the park. Considering that I like it less than most of my colleagues and still think it’s terrific, that’s some high praise. Sit tight for more soon.
3. A Ghost Story – In a few days look for an article specifically about this movie. Until then, know that I’m super excited for this Sundance standout. David Lowery is as unique a filmmaker as the industry has, while the pairing of Casey Affleck and Rooney Mara paid dividends with Ain’t Them Body Saints. Many have put this as one of their favorites of the year so far, so count me in!
2. Spider-Man: Homecoming – I raved about this reboot last week and have another piece planned for later on this week. For now, just know that it’s one of my five favorite things of 2017 so far. It just works, both as a Spider-Man movie as well as a Marvel Cinematic Universe outing. It’s nearly perfect, top to bottom. MCU and Spidey fans are in for a real treat…
1. Dunkirk – Christopher Nolan’s upcoming World War II epic is oddly a bit of an X factor right now. It could be an Oscar juggernaut, or it could turn out to be a lesser entry into his filmography. We’ll find out in a few weeks. Personally, I’m dying to know, and not just because I have it winning a handful of Academy Awards. Nolan at his best is something special. Stay tuned.
Honorable Mentions: City of Ghosts, The Emoji Movie, The Gracefield Incident, Lady Macbeth, Person to Person, and Wish Upon

Be sure to check out these various films all throughout the month that is July!
