
Yesterday, Marvel was not just basking in the glow of some rave early reviews for Black Panther. They were also laying the groundwork for another of their impending 2018 releases, as a Trailer dropped for Ant-Man and the Wasp. A sequel to their initially troubled production Ant-Man, this should build on the comedic caper and continue to showcase another side to the Marvel Cinematic Universe. With only a few months to go before Avengers: Infinity War unveils itself to us, it sure seems like the MCU is in strong shape. More on Black Panther early next month, but today, we’re going to talk Ant-Man and the Wasp. You can see the Trailer at the end of this piece, as per the usual…
The film is, obviously, a sequel to Ant-Man. Even with a Trailer, not much of the plot is known, so here is the IMDb synopsis to start with: “As Scott Lang balances being both a Super Hero and a father, Hope van Dyne and Dr. Hank Pym present an urgent new mission that finds the Ant-Man fighting alongside The Wasp to uncover secrets from their past.” My guess is that they’ll end up on the run for some part of the picture, with Ant-Man and The Wasp learning to work together as their own little team, but we shall see. Paul Rudd plays Scott Land/Ant-Man, while Hope van Dyne/The Wasp is portrayed by Evangeline Lilly. Michael Douglas returns as Hank Pym, while other returning players include Judy Greer and Michael Pena. Newcomers include Laurence Fishburne, Walton Goggins, Michelle Pfeiffer, and many more. Payton Reed returns to the director’s chair, while the screenplay, which includes a credit of  “screenplay by” to Rudd, is written by the group of Andrew Barrer, Gabriel Ferrari, Chris McKenna, and Erik Sommers. The score is composed by Christophe Beck, with Dante Spinotti handling the cinematography.
From the looks of the Trailer, this should be a lot of fun. Assuming that this will tie in heavily to what the MCU is evolving to look like, the movie probably will continue to expand the universe. This particular character seems to be a part of a smaller segment of the MCU, a more personal one, if you will. The first one was a comedic heist, and this one appears almost like a buddy movie. If so, the film can operate almost like a lighter palate cleanser after some of the more intense outings. Besides that, Rudd is just a fun actor to watch enjoy being a superhero. The energy rubs off on the audience in a big way.

For what it’s worth, here is how I would rank Rudd’s ten best performances to date:
10. All is Bright
9. The Oh in Ohio
8. Ant-Man
7. The Perks of Being a Wallflower
6. Forgetting Sarah Marshall
5. Knocked Up
4. Prince Avalanche
3. The 40 Year Old Virgin
2. This is 40
1. The Shape of Things
Honorable Mention: How Do You Know, I Could Never Be Your Woman, Our Idiot Brother, Role Models, and They Came Together
The Trailer for Ant-Man and the Wasp is next, but for now, just know that Marvel continues to fire on all cylinders with there cinematic universe. This isn’t even the next MCU installment, as we’re only about two weeks out from Black Panther, which is first on deck for 2018. Hell, we also have Avengers: Infinity War hitting first, so this could be a part of a whole new phase for the company, as mentioned above. We’ll see this summer, but at the moment, there’s reason to be excited. Take a look at the Trailer below and sit tight for plenty more in the months to come…
Here now is the First Trailer for Ant-Man and the Wasp:

Stay tuned for more on this one between now and its July 6th release date!
