
Each year, the Oscars leave out many a deserving title from their slate of nominations. This year, we seem poised to exclude a bunch of movies that are very strong, while also rightly snubbing a handful of lesser flicks. Today, I want to do the opposite of what I did a few days ago. Instead of looking at films that could lead the nominations on Tuesday, I’ll be predicting some of the many movies that will end up completely shut out on the big morning. As always, the group will be made up of would be players that disappointed, small contenders that fell through the cracks, and larger flicks that just couldn’t get the respect level needed for true contention. That’s simply the name of the game.
Last year, films like Deadpool, The Edge of Seventeen, Everybody Wants Some, Miss Sloane, The Nice Guys, and Sing Street, just to name a few. Now, some of those movies were in contention for real, and some weren’t. That was simply a sampling of the sorts of flicks snubbed last year, for one reason or another. This takes nothing away from the quality of the work, and in some cases just furthers their bona fides with hardcore cinephiles. There will be no shortage of 2017 releases that end up in this situation. In some cases, it’s going to be a real bummer of a snub, too. Plenty will annoy me, personally, but a handful are just such strong works overall that it’s a shame voters won’t recognize them.

Here’s 30 films that could wind up shut out of the Academy Award on Tuesday morning:
All the Money in the World
Baby Driver
Battle of the Sexes
Beatriz at Dinner
The Beguiled
Breathe
Detroit
Downsizing
A Ghost Story
Good Time
The Hero
Hostiles
Ingrid Goes West
The Killing of a Sacred Deer
Last Flag Flying
Logan
Logan Lucky
The Lost City of Z
Marjorie Prime
The Meyerowitz Stories (New and Selected)
mother!
Personal Shopper
Roman J. Israel, Esq.
Stronger
Thank You For Your Service
Valerian and the City of a Thousand Planets
Victoria & Abdul
Wind River
Wonder Wheel
Wonder Woman
Odds are, one or two of these will still break through, but many of them are putting all their eggs in one basket. For example, with Downsizing, it’s Hong Chau in Best Supporting Actress or bust. This also doesn’t take into account animation, documentaries, or foreign films (like BPM, for example) that really had only one category to bank on and didn’t make the short lists or have been shut out all season long. What’s interesting is how a number of these were seen as potentially huge players too. Films like Battle of the Sexes, The Beguiled, Breathe, Detroit, Downsizing, Stronger, and Wonder Wheel seemed as though they could be incredibly Oscar friendly. For one reason or another, all of those movies could miss with the Academy in a few days time. Go figure, right? 
The most likely films to actually score a nomination next week are All the Money in the World, Baby Driver, and Logan, with Ridley Scott’s movie the one sitting prettiest of the lot. Edgar Wright’s hit is fully reliant on some key technical category precursors coming through for the flick, while James Mangold’s unique superhero tale may just slip into Best Adapted Screenplay, though the shut out for Deadpool looms large. Ditto for Wonder Woman, which is an X factor. This is all just speculation. Anything still can happen when the nominations are announced on Tuesday morning. For now, we’re guessing, though it’s only a few days now until the facts become known. The moment of truth will be upon us before you know it. Sit tight…

Stay tuned to see if any of these contenders can avoid a shut out!
