
The Producers Guild of America (PGA) announced this year’s winning motion picture, television, and digital productions at the 29th Annual Producers Guild Awards presented by Cadillac ceremony, which took place at the Beverly Hilton Hotel in Los Angeles.
Closing the evening, the feature film “The Shape of Water” and its producers Guillermo del Toro and J. Miles Dale won the PGA’s Darryl F. Zanuck Award for Outstanding Producer of Theatrical Motion Pictures.  This category is one of the most eagerly anticipated of season and widely considered a strong prognosticator for the Oscars®, as the Zanuck Award has matched the win for Best Picture 19 times in its 28-year history. Also, the films “Coco” won for feature animation and “Jane” won the theatrical documentary category.
 
The Hulu television series “The Handmaid’s Tale” (Season 1) and its producers Bruce Miller, Warren Littlefield, Daniel Wilson, Fran Sears, Ilene Chaiken, Sheila Hockin, Eric Tuchman, Frank Siracusa, John Weber, Joseph Boccia, Elisabeth Moss, Kira Snyder, and Leila Gerstein won the PGA’s Norman Felton Award for Outstanding Producer of Episodic Television, Drama.
Amazon’s “The Marvelous Mrs. Maisel” (Season 1) and its producers Daniel Palladino, Amy Sherman-Palladino, Sheila Lawrence, and Dhana Rivera Gilbert won the Danny Thomas Award for Outstanding Producer of Episodic Television, Comedy.
The full list of winners for 2018 Producers Guild Awards presented by Cadillac is included below.
The PGA also bestowed its special honors to Universal Pictures Chairman Donna Langley with the Milestone Award, Producer Charles Roven with the David O. Selznick Achievement Award in Theatrical Motion Pictures, Producer Ryan Murphy with the Norman Lear Achievement Award in Television, Producer Ava DuVernay with the Visionary Award, and the feature film “Get Out” with the Stanley Kramer Award.
The 2018 Producers Guild Awards Co-Chairs were Donald De Line and Amy Pascal. Cadillac served as Presenting Sponsor of the event. Delta Air Lines, the Official Airline Partner of the PGA, sponsored the Visionary Award. GreenSlate and PGA Green were co-sponsors of the Cocktail Reception.
The Producers Guild of America hosts the 2018 Producers Guild Awards, honoring excellence in motion picture, television and digital productions, as well as some of the living legends who shape the profession. In 1990, the Producers Guild held the first-ever Golden Laurel Awards, which were renamed the Producers Guild Awards in 2002. At that first show, Richard Zanuck and Lili Fini Zanuck took home the award for Best Produced Motion Picture for “Driving Miss Daisy,” establishing the Guild’s awards as a bellwether for the Oscars.

For images from the 29th Annual Producers Guild Awards presented by Cadillac, visit:
RED CARPET
         https://invision.dfstudio.com/go/im/04c4e196-576a-4495-ba6a-ba5266c4e6fa
INSIDE IN BALLROOM
         https://invision.dfstudio.com/go/im/61eec0b3-e53f-46c8-a363-5996bdd80f3c
