
This weekend, two of the major guilds will chime in and really set the stage for Tuesday morning’s Academy Award nominations. Yes, the Producers Guild of America and the Screen Actors Guild awards will be held. lending ammo to certain contenders and potentially causing major damage to others. What happens here with PGA and SAG won’t impact Oscar nods, since ballots were due a week ago, but the next few days could suggest what voters already were thinking were frontrunners, which in turn might be lending us a hint or two, nom wise. I’ve finalized predictions, though will be posting them on Monday, just to tease out the suspense a little bit longer.
Below you will see my predictions for both PGA and SAG. There are very few locks at either precursor, which makes things pretty exciting. The Producers are choosing between the presumed Best Picture frontrunners at Oscar in Get Out, Lady Bird, The Shape of Water, and Three Billboards Outside Ebbing, Missouri, though if Dunkirk or The Post hope to make a play, this is where they absolutely need to do it. PGA should confirm Coco as our Animated frontrunner and Jane as our Documentary one as well, so the three winners (assuming there’s no tie again) that emerge might be the same to win with the Academy, ultimately. As for SAG, the acting branch will again be choosing between Get Out, Lady Bird, and Three Billboards Outside Ebbing, Missouri in their top category. It’s just as much a toss up. The race to watch here though is Best Actress. That’s where Oscar may look to in figuring out who their frontrunner is. For now, your guess is as good as mine.

First up, here are my Producers Guild of America predictions for this weekend:
The Darryl F. Zanuck Award for Outstanding Producer of Theatrical Motion Pictures
Prediction – Get Out
Alternate – Lady Bird
Dark Horse – Three Billboards Outside Ebbing, Missouri
The Award for Outstanding Producer of Animated Theatrical Motion Pictures
Prediction – Coco
Alternate – Ferdinand
Dark Horse – The LEGO Batman Movie
The Award for Outstanding Producer of Documentary Motion Pictures
Prediction – Jane
Alternate – City of Ghosts
Dark Horse – Cries from Syria

Next, this is how I see the Screen Actors Guild Awards going down:
Outstanding Performance by a Male Actor in a Leading Role
Prediction – Gary Oldman for Darkest Hour
Alternate – Timothee Chalamet for Call Me By Your Name
Dark Horse – Daniel Day-Lewis for Phantom Thread
Outstanding Performance by a Female Actor in a Leading Role
Prediction – Frances McDormand for Three Billboards Outside Ebbing, Missouri
Alternate – Saoirse Ronan for Lady Bird
Dark Horse – Margot Robbie for I, Tonya
Outstanding Performance by a Male Actor in a Supporting Role
Prediction – Sam Rockwell for Three Billboards Outside Ebbing, Missouri
Alternate – Willem Dafoe for The Florida Project
Dark Horse – Christopher Plummer for All the Money in the World
Outstanding Performance by a Female Actor in a Supporting Role
Prediction – Allison Janney for I, Tonya
Alternate – Laurie Metcalf for Lady Bird
Dark Horse – Holly Hunter for The Big Sick
Outstanding Performance by a Cast in a Motion Picture
Prediction – Three Billboards Outside Ebbing, Missouri
Alternate – Lady Bird
Dark Horse – Get Out
Outstanding Action Performance by a Stunt Ensemble in a Motion Picture
Prediction – Baby Driver
Alternate – Dunkirk
Dark Horse – War for the Planet of the Apes
As you can see above, and hinted at a lot recently, there’s a consistent battle brewing at the guilds between Get Out, Lady Bird, The Shape of Water, and Three Billboards Outside Ebbing, Missouri. A strong showing by any of the quartet could make them the one to beat with Oscar, assuming next week’s nominations go more or less as expected. We’ll know more in a few days, but plenty of surprises are still to come. This is exciting, isn’t it? Check back for the results of these precursors, as well as final predictions on Monday. The guilds will have their say, then the Academy will. Sit tight…

Stay tuned to see how PGA and SAG turn out this weekend!
