
307 movies later (an above average lot for me), my year is complete. It’s now time to put a nice little bow on 2017, ladies and gentlemen! New Year’s Eve is only two short days away, but before that party commences, today will be a festivity of sorts. Yes, it’s time to reveal my picks for the year’s best films and performances. From early year releases that held on all the way to a few late breaking players, my lists have a whole range of titles found within. The year has been another volatile one, both in terms of world events and also when it comes to cinema. 2016 was the year where things kind of got nuts politically and with celebrity deaths, and 2017 continued that troubling trend, but it was also the year wear some truly incredible movies came out. Plenty of people will continue to focus on the former (rightly so, in many cases), so I’ll concentrate on the latter once again today.
Let’s get started folks!

Below you will be able to see both my picks for the very best movies of 2017 as well as the best performances of 2017. In terms of the movies, I’ll be doing a top 30 list again, with a few honorable mentions, just because (I like including as much as possible…we know this by now). The same will go for the performances I’m keenest on, where I’ll do a top ten and honorable mentions. Finally, I’ll conclude with awards in a whole bunch of categories. After this, there will be no question what I favored this year. Astute readers probably know my top ten, or at least most of it, but even if you’re in the dark, that won’t last much longer. Anyway, on to the good stuff…
Here goes nothing!

Starting off, here’s my top 30 films for 2017:
30. Between Us
29. Spielberg
28. Dean
27. The Beguiled
26. Call Me By Your Name
25. Hostiles
24. The Final Year
23. Battle of the Sexes
22. Mudbound
21. Spider-Man: Homecoming
20. Wind River
19. Blade Runner 2049
18. The Meyerowitz Stories (New and Selected)
17. Molly’s Game
16. Detroit
15. Star Wars: The Last Jedi
14. Last Flag Flying
13. Logan
12. Coco
11. Lady Bird
10. The Big Sick
9. A Ghost Story
8. The Hero
7. The Florida Project
6. mother!
5. Stronger
4. Dunkirk
3. Three Billboards Outside Ebbing, Missouri
2. I, Tonya
1. The Disaster Artist
Honorable Mentions: An Inconvenient Sequel: Truth to Power, Atomic Blonde, BPM: Beats Per Minute, The Discovery, Flower, The LEGO Batman Movie, Logan Lucky, Megan Leavey, The Shape of Water, Wonder Woman

Here also are my top ten performances for the year:
10. Aubrey Plaza for Ingrid Goes West
9. Laurie Metcalf for Lady Bird
8. Allison Janney for I, Tonya
7. Sam Rockwell for Three Billboards Outside Ebbing, Missouri
6. Brooklynn Prince for The Florida Project
5. James Franco for The Disaster Artist
4. Jake Gyllenhaal for Stronger
3. Tatiana Maslany for Stronger
2. Sam Elliott for The Hero
1. Margot Robbie for I, Tonya
Honorable Mentions: Willem Dafoe for The Florida Project, Jeff Goldblum for Thor: Ragnarok, Hugh Jackman for Logan, Zoe Kazan for The Big Sick, Daphne Keen for Logan, Kate Mara for Megan Leavey, Kumail Nanjiani for The Big Sick, Ray Romano for The Big Sick, Lois Smith for Marjorie Prime, and Patrick Stewart for Logan

And now, my personal awards for the year that was 2017:
Best Picture: The Disaster Artist (runner up: I, Tonya and Three Billboards Outside Ebbing, Missouri)
Best Director: Darren Aronofsky for mother! (runner up: James Franco for The Disaster Artist and David Lowery for A Ghost Story)
Best Actor: Sam Elliott for The Hero (runner up: James Franco for The Disaster Artist and Jake Gyllenhaal for Stronger)
Best Actress: Margot Robbie for I, Tonya (runner up: Aubrey Plaza for Ingrid Goes West and Brooklynn Prince for The Florida Project)
Best Supporting Actor: Sam Rockwell for Three Billboards Outside Ebbing, Missouri (runner up: Jeff Goldblum for Thor: Ragnarok and Patrick Stewart for Logan)
Best Supporting Actress: Tatiana Maslany for Stronger (runner up: Allison Janney for I, Tonya and Laurie Metcalf for Lady Bird)
Best Adapted Screenplay: The Disaster Artist (runner up: Molly’s Game and Stronger)
Best Original Screenplay: The Big Sick (runner up: I, Tonya and mother!)
Best Animated Feature: Coco (runner up: Captain Underpants and Cars 3)
Best Documentary Feature: The Final Year (runner up: 11/8/16 and Spielberg)
Best Foreign Language Feature: BPM: Beats Per Minute (runner up: Raw and The Unknown Woman)
Best Production Design: The Disaster Artist (runner up: Dunkirk and mother!)
Best Cinematography: Blade Runner 2049 (runner up: Dunkirk and Hostiles)
Best Costume Design: I, Tonya (runner up: The Beguiled and Wonder Wheel)
Best Film Editing: Dunkirk (runner up: A Ghost Story and mother!)
Best Makeup: Darkest Hour (runner up: I, Tonya and Logan)
Best Sound: Dunkirk (runner up: Detroit and mother!)
Best Original Score: Dunkirk (runner up: Phantom Thread and Star Wars: The Last Jedi)
Best Original Song: The Hero from The Hero (runner up: Remember Me from Coco and I Get Overwhelmed from A Ghost Story)
Best Visual Effects: Blade Runner 2049 (runner up: Star Wars: The Last Jedi and War for the Planet of the Apes)
*Special Bonus Category*
Best Cast Ensemble: The Big Sick (runner up The Disaster Artist and Stronger)

Quickly now, these would be my ten worst films of the year, in alphabetical order:
American Assassin
The Boss Baby
The Clapper
The Emoji Movie
Fifty Shades Darker
Hermia & Helena
The Last Face
Nerdland
The Snowman
Transformers: The Last Knight
Let us never speak of those again, as they contributed nothing of quality to the cinematic discussion…

Here’s to a really great 2018, both for movies and just life in general!
