
As the year wraps up, awards shows are going to begin to take center stage, no pun intended. The Golden Globes don’t really mean too much, Academy Award wise, but with so many close races this year, they might actually end up holding a bit more sway than usual. Academy voters will always do what they feel like doing, just like Hollywood Foreign Press Association members do, but influence could had here if specific winners go down with the Globes. For the moment, we have a situation where only one or two Oscar categories seem wrapped up, so what Globe events occur could actually matter…
Below you can see how I think the Globes will go. Essentially, in the Drama category, it’s anyone’s ballgame, picture wise, while in Comedy or Musical, Get Out is likely to be fighting Lady Bird for top honors. Interestingly, there’s no easy pick in the acting categories either, outside of potentially Gary Oldman for Darkest Hour in Best Actor – Drama and Willem Dafoe for The Florida Project in Best Supporting Actor. Everywhere else, it’s a close battle, with the same going for Best Director and Best Screenplay as well. This is unique, and will be fun to witness. That goes without saying.
Here now are my picks for the Golden Globe winners:
Best Motion Picture – Drama
1. The Shape of Water
2. Three Billboards Outside Ebbing, Missouri
3. Dunkirk
4. The Post
5. Call Me By Your Name
Best Motion Picture – Musical or Comedy
1. Lady Bird
2. Get Out
3. The Disaster Artist
4. I, Tonya
5. The Greatest Showman
Best Performance by an Actor in a Motion Picture – Drama
1. Gary Oldman – Darkest Hour
2. Timothee Chalamet – Call Me By Your Name
3. Daniel Day-Lewis – Darkest Hour
4. Tom Hanks – The Post
5. Denzel Washington – Roman J. Israel, Esq.
Best Performance by an Actress in a Motion Picture – Drama
1. Frances McDormand – Three Billboards Outside Ebbing, Missouri
2. Sally Hawkins – The Shape of Water
3. Meryl Streep – The Post
4. Michelle Williams – All the Money in the World
5. Jessica Chastain – Molly’s Game
Best Performance by an Actor in a Motion Picture – Musical or Comedy
1. James Franco – The Disaster Artist
2. Daniel Kaluuya – Get Out
3. Steve Carell – Battle of the Sexes
4. Hugh Jackman – The Greatest Showman
5. Ansel Elgort – Baby Driver
Best Performance by an Actress in a Motion Picture – Musical or Comedy
1. Margot Robbie – I, Tonya
2. Saoirse Ronan – Lady Bird
3. Emma Stone – Battle of the Sexes
4. Judi Dench – Victoria & Abdul
5. Helen Mirren – The Leisure Seeker
Best Performance by an Actor in a Supporting Role in Any Motion Picture
1. Willem Dafoe – The Florida Project
2. Sam Rockwell – Three Billboards Outside Ebbing, Missouri
3. Christopher Plummer – All the Money in the World
4. Armie Hammer – Call Me By Your Name
5. Richard Jenkins – The Shape of Water
Best Performance by an Actress in a Supporting Role in Any Motion Picture
1. Laurie Metcalf – Lady Bird
2. Allison Janney – I, Tonya
3. Mary J. Blige – Mudbound
4. Hong Chau – Downsizing
5. Octavia Spencer, The Shape of Water
Best Director – Motion Picture
1. Christopher Nolan – Dunkirk
2. Guillermo del Toro – The Shape of Water
3. Ridley Scott – All the Money in the World
4. Martin McDonagh – Three Billboards Outside Ebbing, Missouri
5. Steven Spielberg – The Post
Best Screenplay – Motion Picture
1. Greta Gerwig – Lady Bird
2. Martin McDonagh – Three Billboards Outside Ebbing, Missouri
3. Guillermo del Toro & Vanessa Taylor – The Shape of Water
4. Aaron Sorkin – Molly’s Game
5. Liz Hannah & Josh Singer – The Post
Best Original Score – Motion Picture
1. Jonny Greenwood – Phantom Thread
2. Hans Zimmer – Dunkirk
3. Alexandre Desplat – The Shape of Water
4. Carter Burwell – Three Billboards Outside Ebbing, Missouri
5. John Williams, The Post
Best Original Song – Motion Picture
1. Remember Me from Coco
2. This Is Me from The Greatest Showman
3. Mighty River from Mudbound
4. Home from Ferdinand
5. The Star from The Star
Best Animated Feature Film
1. Coco
2. Loving Vincent
3. Ferdinand
4. The Breadwinner
5. The Boss Baby
Best Foreign-Language Film
1. First They Killed My Father
2. In the Fade
3. A Fantastic Woman
4. The Square
5. Loveless

Stay tuned for updated Globe predictions next month!
