
This Sunday, the Hollywood Foreign Press Association will announce their latest crop of Golden Globe award winners. With the Academy Award nominations still to be announced, this sets the HFPA up in a position to try and influence some last minute voters. That may or may not happen, but with such an unsettled race, anything is possible. Right now, a win on national television will boost any of the contenders, so the Globes could actually make a bit of a difference this year. We can analyze the winners next week, but for now, we should try and figure out who and what they are first.
Below you can see my final Golden Globe predictions. We’re kind of in a holding pattern here. Much like I said last week, it’s essentially anybody’s ballgame. Especially in Drama, that’s truly the case, while in Comedy or Musical, Get Out is likely to be fighting Lady Bird for top honors (an Oscar preview?). Interestingly enough, there’s no easy pick in the acting categories either, outside of potentially Gary Oldman for Darkest Hour in Best Actor – Drama (though watch out for Timothee Chalamet) and Willem Dafoe for The Florida Project in Best Supporting Actor (though watch out for the late breaking Christopher Plummer). Everywhere else, it’s a real close battle, with the same going for Best Director and Best Screenplay as well. This is a unique situation, and will be compelling to witness on Sunday. At the last minute, I went with a move towards Lady Bird and The Shape of Water leading the charge, but it just as easily could be two other titles. That’s how wide open this all is…
Here now are my final Globe picks:
Best Motion Picture – Drama
1. The Shape of Water
2. Three Billboards Outside Ebbing, Missouri
3. Dunkirk
4. Call Me By Your Name
5. The Post
Best Motion Picture – Musical or Comedy
1. Lady Bird
2. Get Out
3. The Disaster Artist
4. I, Tonya
5. The Greatest Showman
Best Performance by an Actor in a Motion Picture – Drama
1. Gary Oldman – Darkest Hour
2. Timothee Chalamet – Call Me By Your Name
3. Daniel Day-Lewis – Darkest Hour
4. Tom Hanks – The Post
5. Denzel Washington – Roman J. Israel, Esq.
Best Performance by an Actress in a Motion Picture – Drama
1. Sally Hawkins – The Shape of Water
2. Frances McDormand – Three Billboards Outside Ebbing, Missouri
3. Meryl Streep – The Post
4. Jessica Chastain – Molly’s Game
5. Michelle Williams – All the Money in the World
Best Performance by an Actor in a Motion Picture – Musical or Comedy
1. James Franco – The Disaster Artist
2. Daniel Kaluuya – Get Out
3. Steve Carell – Battle of the Sexes
4. Hugh Jackman – The Greatest Showman
5. Ansel Elgort – Baby Driver
Best Performance by an Actress in a Motion Picture – Musical or Comedy
1. Saoirse Ronan – Lady Bird
2. Margot Robbie – I, Tonya
3. Judi Dench – Victoria & Abdul
4. Emma Stone – Battle of the Sexes
5. Helen Mirren – The Leisure Seeker
Best Performance by an Actor in a Supporting Role in Any Motion Picture
1. Willem Dafoe – The Florida Project
2. Christopher Plummer – All the Money in the World
3. Sam Rockwell – Three Billboards Outside Ebbing, Missouri
4. Armie Hammer – Call Me By Your Name
5. Richard Jenkins – The Shape of Water
Best Performance by an Actress in a Supporting Role in Any Motion Picture
1. Laurie Metcalf – Lady Bird
2. Allison Janney – I, Tonya
3. Mary J. Blige – Mudbound
4. Hong Chau – Downsizing
5. Octavia Spencer, The Shape of Water
Best Director – Motion Picture
1. Guillermo del Toro – The Shape of Water
2. Christopher Nolan – Dunkirk
3. Ridley Scott – All the Money in the World
4. Martin McDonagh – Three Billboards Outside Ebbing, Missouri
5. Steven Spielberg – The Post
Best Screenplay – Motion Picture
1. Greta Gerwig – Lady Bird
2. Guillermo del Toro & Vanessa Taylor – The Shape of Water
3. Martin McDonagh – Three Billboards Outside Ebbing, Missouri
4. Aaron Sorkin – Molly’s Game
5. Liz Hannah & Josh Singer – The Post
Best Original Score – Motion Picture
1. Jonny Greenwood – Phantom Thread
2. Hans Zimmer – Dunkirk
3. Alexandre Desplat – The Shape of Water
4. Carter Burwell – Three Billboards Outside Ebbing, Missouri
5. John Williams – The Post
Best Original Song – Motion Picture
1. Remember Me – Coco
2. This Is Me – The Greatest Showman
3. Mighty River – Mudbound
4. Home – Ferdinand
5. The Star – The Star
Best Animated Feature Film
1. Coco
2. Loving Vincent
3. The Breadwinner
4. Ferdinand
5. The Boss Baby
Best Foreign-Language Film
1. First They Killed My Father
2. A Fantastic Woman
3. In the Fade
4. The Square
5. Loveless

Stay tuned to see who and what takes home Globes this weekend!
