
Folks, here is a sense of just how deep into the end of the year we’ve gotten. The Golden Globe Awards will announce their nominations early on next week. Monday morning, to be specific. One of the highest profile nominating bodies out there, the Hollywood Foreign Press Association (or HFPA, for short) will have their say and potentially shape the race. Keep in mind that they have limited impact on the Oscars, but Academy Award voters do pay some degree of attention to what goes on here. As such, it’s worth our time. One last shot at acing the nominations is what you’ll see here. There’s definitely still some mystery here, though the season is already taking shape with other precursors.
Below is my final crack at figuring out the Globes. It should be a good morning for Call Me By Your Name, Dunkirk, Get Out, and Lady Bird, to name a few titles in solid position. Look out for The Disaster Artist to potentially do very well too. A lot will depend on what the HFPA think of the just revealed big guns. If they’re into Phantom Thread and The Post, that could make things more competitive. There’s also the little matter of The Greatest Showman, which seems made for Globe love. We’ll know in just a few short days. Until then, my final picks are up next…
Here now is a third look at my Golden Globe predictions for 2017:
Best Picture (Drama)
1. Call Me By Your Name
2. Dunkirk
3. Darkest Hour
4. Three Billboards Outside Ebbing, Missouri
5. Phantom Thread
If there’s a sixth: The Shape of Water
If there’s a seventh: The Post
One more to consider: Blade Runner 2049
Best Picture (Comedy or Musical)
1. Lady Bird
2. Get Out
3. The Disaster Artist
4. I, Tonya
5. The Big Sick
If there’s a sixth: The Greatest Showman
If there’s a seventh: Beauty and the Beast
One more to consider: Downsizing
Best Actor (Drama)
1. Gary Oldman – Darkest Hour
2. Daniel Day-Lewis – Phantom Thread
3. Timothee Chalamet – Call Me By Your Name
4. Tom Hanks – The Post
5. Jake Gyllenhaal – Stronger
If there’s a sixth: Christian Bale – Hostiles
If there’s a seventh: Andrew Garfield – Breathe
One more to consider: Ryan Gosling – Blade Runner 2049
Best Actor (Comedy or Musical)
1. James Franco – The Disaster Artist
2. Adam Sandler – The Meyerowitz Stories (New and Selected)
3. Hugh Jackman – The Greatest Showman
4. Steve Carell – Battle of the Sexes
5. Kumail Nanjani – The Big Sick
If there’s a sixth: Daniel Kaluuya – Get Out
If there’s a seventh: Jamie Bell – Film Stars Don’t Die in Liverpool
One more to consider: Matt Damon – Downsizing
Best Actress (Drama)
1. Frances McDormand – Three Billboards Outside Ebbing, Missouri
2. Jessica Chastain – Molly’s Game
3. Sally Hawkins – The Shape of Water
4. Meryl Streep – The Post
5. Jennifer Lawrence – mother!
If there’s a sixth: Kate Winslet – Wonder Wheel
If there’s a seventh: Vicky Krieps – Phantom Thread
One more to consider: Salma Hayek – Beatriz At Dinner
Best Actress (Comedy or Musical)
1. Saoirse Ronan – Lady Bird
2. Margot Robbie – I, Tonya
3. Emma Stone – Battle of the Sexes
4. Annette Bening – Film Stars Don’t Die in Liverpool
5. Judi Dench – Victoria & Abdul
If there’s a sixth: Emma Watson – Beauty and the Beast
If there’s a seventh: Allison Williams – Get Out
One more to consider: Zoe Kazan – The Big Sick
Best Supporting Actor
1. Sam Rockwell – Three Billboards Outside Ebbing, Missouri
2. Willem Dafoe – The Florida Project
3. Armie Hammer – Call Me By Your Name
4. Daniel Craig – Logan Lucky
5. Mark Rylance – Dunkirk
If there’s a sixth: Richard Jenkins – The Shape of Water
If there’s a seventh: Ben Mendelsohn – Darkest Hour
One more to consider: Bryan Cranston – Last Flag Flying
Best Supporting Actress
1. Laurie Metcalf – Lady Bird
2. Allison Janney – I, Tonya
3. Holly Hunter – The Big Sick
4. Hong Chau – Downsizing
5. Claire Foy – Breathe
If there’s a sixth: Michelle Pfeiffer – mother!
If there’s a seventh: Lesley Manville – Phantom Thread
One more to consider: Tiffany Haddish – Girls Trip
Best Director
1. Christopher Nolan – Dunkirk
2. Guillermo del Toro – The Shape of Water
3. Luca Guadagnino – Call Me By Your Name
4. Joe Wright – Darkest Hour
5. James Franco – The Disaster Artist
If there’s a sixth: Greta Gerwig – Lady Bird
If there’s a seventh: Paul Thomas Anderson – Phantom Thread
One more to consider: Jordan Peele – Get Out
Best Screenplay
1. Three Billboards Outside Ebbing, Missouri
2. Molly’s Game
3. The Disaster Artist
4. Call Me By Your Name
5. Lady Bird
If there’s a sixth: Darkest Hour
If there’s a seventh: The Shape of Water
One more to consider: Get Out
Best Animated Feature
1. Coco
2. Loving Vincent
3. Ferdinand
4. The LEGO Batman Movie
5. Cars 3
One more to consider: The Breadwinner
Best Original Score
1. Dunkirk
2. Phantom Thread
3. The Shape of Water
4. Darkest Hour
5. The Post
One more to consider: Star Wars: The Last Jedi
Best Original Song
1. Coco
2. The Greatest Showman
3. Beauty and the Beast
4. Detroit
5. The Hero
One more to consider: Marshall
Best Foreign Film
1. First They Killed My Father
2. BPM: Beats Per Minute
3. In the Fade
4. The Square
5. Foxtrot
One more to consider: The Divine Order

Stay tuned to see who and what receives Golden Globe nominations early next week!
