
This morning, the nominations were announced for the 2017 Golden Globe awards. As always, it was a mix of Academy Award frontrunners and one offs that will see their only moment in the sun courtesy of the Hollywood Foreign Press Association. The Globes are as much about perception as anything else in the awards season, so doing well here certainly doesn’t hurt. Nothing and no one was made or broken today, but the better you did, the more helpful that will be going forward. That’s just the name of the game with the Golden Globes. Mark another precursor off on your calendar folks. We’re speeding along to the guilds, which will really impact the race in a notable way.
Leading the way today was Guillermo del Toro’s The Shape of Water, which scored seven nominations. Close behind with six each were Martin McDonagh’s Three Billboards Outside Ebbing, Missouri and Steven Spielberg’s The Post. Then we had Greta Gerwig’s Lady Bird at four, while three citations apiece were bestowed upon Craig Gillespie’s I, Tonya, Michael Gracey’s The Greatest Showman, Luca Guadagnino’s Call Me By Your Name, Christopher Nolan’s Dunkirk, and surprisingly, Ridley Scott’s All The Money in the World. You’ll see all of the nominations below, but for the moment, it does seem like very little has changed in the Oscar race. The current frontrunners are still the current frontrunners, by all appearances…
Here now are all of the Golden Globe nominees for this year:
Best Motion Picture – Drama
Call Me By Your Name
Dunkirk
The Post
The Shape of Water
Three Billboards Outside Ebbing, Missouri
Best Motion Picture – Musical or Comedy
The Disaster Artist
Get Out
The Greatest Showman
I, Tonya
Lady Bird
Best Performance by an Actor in a Motion Picture – Drama
Timothee Chalamet, Call Me By Your Name
Daniel Day-Lewis, Phantom Thread
Tom Hanks, The Post
Gary Oldman, Darkest Hour
Denzel Washington, Roman J. Israel, Esq.
Best Performance by an Actress in a Motion Picture – Drama
Jessica Chastain, Molly’s Game
Sally Hawkins, The Shape of Water
Frances McDormand, Three Billboards Outside Ebbing, Missouri
Meryl Streep, The Post
Michelle Williams, All the Money in the World
Best Performance by an Actor in a Motion Picture – Musical or Comedy
Steve Carell, Battle of the Sexes
Ansel Elgort, Baby Driver
James Franco, The Disaster Artist
Hugh Jackman, The Greatest Showman
Daniel Kaluuya, Get Out
Best Performance by an Actress in a Motion Picture – Musical or Comedy
Judi Dench, Victoria & Abdul
Helen Mirren, The Leisure Seeker
Margot Robbie, I, Tonya
Saoirse Ronan, Lady Bird
Emma Stone, Battle of the Sexes
Best Performance by an Actor in a Supporting Role in Any Motion Picture
Willem Dafoe, The Florida Project
Armie Hammer, Call Me By Your Name
Richard Jenkins, The Shape of Water
Sam Rockwell, Three Billboards Outside Ebbing, Missouri
Christopher Plummer, All the Money in the World
Best Performance by an Actress in a Supporting Role in Any Motion Picture
Mary J. Blige, Mudbound
Hong Chau, Downsizing
Allison Janney, I, Tonya
Laurie Metcalf, Lady Bird
Octavia Spencer, The Shape of Water
Best Director – Motion Picture
Guillermo del Toro, The Shape of Water
Martin McDonagh, Three Billboards Outside Ebbing, Missouri
Christopher Nolan, Dunkirk
Ridley Scott, All the Money in the World
Steven Spielberg, The Post
Best Screenplay – Motion Picture
Guillermo del Toro & Vanessa Taylor, The Shape of Water
Greta Gerwig, Lady Bird
Liz Hannah & Josh Singer, The Post
Martin McDonagh, Three Billboards Outside Ebbing, Missouri
Aaron Sorkin, Molly’s Game
Best Original Score – Motion Picture
Carter Burwell, Three Billboards Outside Ebbing, Missouri
Alexandre Desplat, The Shape of Water
Jonny Greenwood, Phantom Thread
John Williams, The Post
Hans Zimmer, Dunkirk
Best Original Song – Motion Picture
“Remember Me,” Coco
“Home,” Ferdinand
“This Is Me,” The Greatest Showman
“Mighty River,” Mudbound
“The Star,” The Star
Best Animated Feature Film
The Boss Baby
The Breadwinner
Coco
Ferdinand
Loving Vincent
Best Foreign-Language Film
A Fantastic Woman
First They Killed My Father
In the Fade
Loveless
The Square
Best Television Series – Drama
The Crown
The Handmaid’s Tale
This Is Us
Stranger Things
Game of Thrones
Best Television Series – Comedy or Musical
Black-ish
Master of None
The Marvelous Mrs. Maisel
SMILF
Will & Grace
Best Performance by an Actor in a Television Series – Drama
Sterling K. Brown, This Is Us
Bob Odenkirk, Better Call Saul
Liev Schreiber, Ray Donovan
Jason Bateman, Ozark
Freddie Highmore, The Good Doctor
Best Performance by an Actress in a Television Series – Drama
Claire Foy, The Crown
Elisabeth Moss, The Handmaid’s Tale
Caitriona Balfe, Outlander
Maggie Gyllenhaal, The Deuce
Katherine Langford, 13 Reasons Why
Best Performance by an Actor in a Television Series – Comedy or Musical
Anthony Anderson, Black-ish
Aziz Ansari, Master of None
Kevin Bacon, I Love Dick
William H. Macy, Shameless
Eric McCormack, Will & Grace
Best Performance by an Actress in a Television Series – Comedy or Musical
Pamela Adlon, Better Things
Alison Brie, Glow
Rachel Brosnahan, The Marvelous Mrs. Maisel
Issa Rae, Insecure
Frankie Shaw, SMILF
Best Performance by an Actor in a Limited Series or Motion Picture Made for Television
Robert De Niro, The Wizard of Lies
Ewan McGregor, Fargo
Geoffrey Rush, Genius
Jude Law, The Young Pope
Kyle MacLachlan, Twin Peaks
Best Performance by an Actress in a Limited Series or Motion Picture Made for Television
Jessica Biel, The Sinner
Nicole Kidman, Big Little Lies
Jessica Lange, Feud: Bette and Joan
Susan Sarandon, Feud: Bette and Joan
Reese Witherspoon, Big Little Lies
Best Performance by an Actor in a Supporting Role in a Series, Limited Series or Motion Picture Made for Television
David Harbour, Stranger Things
Alfred Molina, Feud: Bette and Joan
Alexander Skarsgard, Big Little Lies
David Thewlis, Fargo
Christian Slater, Mr. Robot
Best Performance by an Actress in a Supporting Role in a Series, Limited Series or Motion Picture Made for Television
Laura Dern, Big Little Lies
Ann Dowd, The Handmaid’s Tale
Chrissy Metz, This Is Us
Michelle Pfeiffer, The Wizard of Lies
Shailene Woodley, Big Little Lies
Best TV Movie or Limited-Series
Big Little Lies
Fargo
Feud: Bette and Joan
The Sinner
Top of the Lake: China Girl

Stay tuned to see who and what ends up winning Globes!
