
Early on next week, one of the most enjoyable precursors will announce their nominations. Of course, I’m talking about the Film Independent Spirit Awards. Predicting them are always an absolute shot in the dark, and normally I wait until the nominees are announced, but hey, why not be bold this year, right? Fortune favors the bold, after all. So, I’ll be giving this a shot. If nothing else, it’s a fun exercise. The Spirit Awards are the fun cousin to the Academy Award, so while it doesn’t have the prestige of winning an Oscar, it represents something very honorable as well. For some, it’s even the more cherished prize. In any event, read on to see my complete guess at Spirit Award results…
Depending on what is eligible, my picks could be way off, so just keep that in mind. For what it’s worth, I’m looking to some combination of the following titles to do well: The Big Sick, The Disaster Artist, The Florida Project, Get Out, Good Time, I, Tonya, I Don’t Feel At Home in This World Anymore, Lady Bird, The Shape of Water, Three Billboards Outside Ebbing, Missouri (if it’s eligible), and Wind River. Plus, this could be one of the last stands for award hopefuls like The Hero, etc. That’s part of what makes the Spirit Awards so interesting to me. Last year, my predictions were hit or miss. Expect that to be the case again here. That’s just par for the course. Gun to my head, I think it ends up being a great morning for Greta Gerwig and her film Lady bird, but we shall see.
Here now are some sure to be wrong Spirit Award predictions before Tuesday’s nomination announcement:
Best Feature
1. The Shape of Water
2. Lady Bird
3. The Florida Project
4. I, Tonya
5. The Disaster Artist
A potential sixth: Mudbound
Best Director
1. Guillermo del Toro – The Shape of Water
2. Greta Gerwig – Lady Bird
3. Sean Baker – The Florida Project
4. Craig Gillespie – I, Tonya
5. James Franco – The Disaster Artist
A potential sixth: Dee Rees – Mudbound
Best First Feature
1. Get Out
2. Wind River
3. I Don’t Feel At Home in This World Anymore
4. Dean
5. Blame
A potential sixth: Novitiate 
Best Male Lead
1. James Franco – The Disaster Artist
2. Sam Elliott – The Hero
3. Kumail Nanjiani – The Big Sick
4. Jeremy Renner – Wind River
5. Robert Pattinson – Good Time
A potential sixth: Daniel Kulaya – Get Out
Best Female Lead
1. Margot Robbie – I, Tonya
2. Saoirse Ronan – Lady Bird
3. Sally Hawkins – The Shape of Water
4. Brooklynn Prince – The Florida Project
5. Melanie Lynskey – I Don’t Feel At Home in This World Anymore
A potential sixth: Zoe Kazan – The Big Sick
Best Supporting Male
1. Willem Dafoe – The Florida Project
2. Ray Romano – The Big Sick
3. Michael Shannon – The Shape of Water
4. Daniel Craig – Logan Lucky
5. Garrett Hedlund – Mudbound
A potential sixth: Richard Jenkins – The Shape of Water
Best Supporting Female
1. Allison Janney – I, Tonya
2. Laurie Metcalf – Lady Bird
3. Holly Hunter – The Big Sick
4. Melissa Leo – Novitiate
5. Lois Smith – Marjorie Prime
A potential sixth: Grace Van Patten – The Meyerowitz Stories (New and Selected)
Best Screenplay
1. Lady Bird
2. The Shape of Water
3. The Florida Project
4. Wind River
5. The Disaster Artist
A potential sixth: Mudbound
Best First Screenplay
1. Get Out
2. I, Tonya
3. The Big Sick
4. Blame
5. Dean
A potential sixth: Novitiate
Best International Film
1. Three Billboards Outside Ebbing, Missouri
2. BPM (Beats Per Minute)
3. The Square
4. A Fantastic Woman
5. First They Killed My Father
A potential sixth: The Divine Order
Best Documentary Feature
1. Cries from Syria
2. Jane
3. Last Men in Aleppo
4. Kedi
5. Chasing Coral
A potential sixth: 11/8/16
Best Cinematography
1. The Shape of Water
2. Lady Bird
3. Mudbound
4. I, Tonya
5. The Florida Project
A potential sixth: A Ghost Story
Best Editing
1. The Shape of Water
2. Get Out
3. Lady Bird
4. The Disaster Artist
5. I, Tonya
A potential sixth: The Florida Project

Stay tuned to see who and what gets nominated on Tuesday morning!
