
A little earlier today, as well as yesterday evening, the precursor season marched on. Two notable ones announced, with the Gotham Awards having their ceremony last night, while only a short while ago, winners were revealed from the National Board of Review. This represents another marker in the first phase of the awards season. Precursors will be coming hot and heavy, and while Gotham doesn’t really impact the race all that much, NBR does have a decent track record. Keep that in mind as you look at what the winners were over the course of the past 24 hours. It’s been an eventful day and change though, that much is clear.
As you’ll see below, Gotham and NBR both cited Jordan Peele and Get Out in multiple categories. The former also went hard for Call Me By Your Name, while the latter had a bit of recency bias on their minds. The Post took the top prize and both acting citations (Actor for Tom Hanks and Actress for Meryl Streep), while Phantom Thread (which I’ve seen and am embargoed on) won for Paul Thomas Anderson’s Original Screenplay. If you look at my Facebook/Twitter, I posted about The Post, no pun intended, so it’s a quality film, just know that. It’ll be interesting to see if it can go on a run, awards wise. Anyway, on to the precursor results now…
First up, the NBR citations:
Best Film
“The Post”
Top Films
“Baby Driver”
“Call Me by Your Name”
“The Disaster Artist”
“Downsizing”
“Dunkirk”
“The Florida Project”
“Get Out”
“Lady Bird”
“Logan”
“Phantom Thread”
Best Director
Greta Gerwig, “Lady Bird”
Best Actor
Tom Hanks, “The Post”
Best Actress
Meryl Streep, “The Post”
Best Supporting Actor
Willem Dafoe, “The Florida Project”
Best Supporting Actress
Laurie Metcalf, “Lady Bird”
Best Adapted Screenplay
“The Disaster Artist”
Best Original Screenplay
“Phantom Thread”
Best Ensemble
“Get Out”
Breakthrough Performance
Timothee Chalamet, “Call Me by Your Name”
Best Directorial Debut
Jordan Peele, “Get Out”
Best Animated Film
“Coco”
Best Foreign Language Film
“Foxtrot”
Top Foreign Films
“A Fantastic Woman”
“Frantz”
“Loveless”
“Summer 1993”
“The Square”
Best Documentary Film
“Jane”
Top Documentaries
“Abacus: Small Enough to Jail”
“Brimstone & Glory”
“Eric Clapton: Life in 12 bars”
“Faces Places”
“Hell on Earth: The Fall of Syria and the Rise of Isis”
Top Independent Films
“Beatriz at Dinner”
“Brigsby Bear”
“A Ghost Story”
“Lady Macbeth”
“Logan Lucky”
“Loving Vincent”
“Menashe”
“Norman: The Moderate Rise and Tragic Fall of a New York Fixer”
“Patti Cake$”
“Wind River”
NBR Freedom of Expression Award (Two winners)
“Let It Fall: Los Angeles 1982-1992”
Angelina Jolie, “First They Killed My Father”
Spotlight Award
Patty Jenkins and Gal Gadot, “Wonder Woman”

Here now are the Gotham winners:
Best Feature
Call Me by Your Name
Luca Guadagnino, director; Peter Spears, Luca Guadagnino, Emilie Georges, Rodrigo Teixeira, Marco Morabito, James Ivory, Howard Rosenman, producers (Sony Pictures Classics) (WINNER)
The Florida Project
Sean Baker, director; Sean Baker, Chris Bergoch, Kevin Chinoy, Andrew Duncan, Alex Saks, Francesca Silvestri, Shih-Ching Tsou, producers (A24)
Get Out
Jordan Peele, director; Sean McKittrick, Jason Blum, Edward H. Hamm, Jr., Jordan Peele, producers (Universal Pictures)
Good Time
Josh and Benny Safdie, directors; Paris Kasidokostas-Latsis, Terry Dougas, Sebastian Bear-McClard, Oscar Boyson, producers (A24)
I, Tonya
Craig Gillespie, director; Bryan Unkeless, Steven Rogers, Margot Robbie, Tom Ackerley, producers (30WEST and NEON)
Best Documentary
Strong Island
Yance Ford, director; Yance Ford, Joslyn Barnes, producers (Netflix) (WINNER)
Ex Libris – The New York Public Library 
Frederick Wiseman, director and producer (Zipporah Films)
Rat Film
Theo Anthony, director; Riel Roch-Decter, Sebastian Pardo, producers (MEMORY and Cinema Guild)
Whose Streets?
Sabaah Folayan, Damon Davis, directors; Sabaah Folayan, Damon Davis, Jennifer MacArthur, Flannery Miller, producers (Magnolia Pictures)
The Work
Jairus McLeary, director;  Alice Henty, Eon McLeary, Jairus McLeary, Miles McLeary, producers (The Orchard and First Look Media)
Best Actor*
James Franco in The Disaster Artist (A24) (WINNER)
Willem Dafoe in The Florida Project (A24)
Daniel Kaluuya in Get Out (Universal Pictures)
Robert Pattinson in Good Time (A24)
Adam Sandler in The Meyerowitz Stories (New and Selected) (Netflix)
Harry Dean Stanton in Lucky (Magnolia Pictures)
Best Actress*
Saoirse Ronan in Lady Bird (A24)
Melanie Lynskey in I Don’t Feel at Home in This World Anymore (Netflix)
Haley Lu Richardson in Columbus (Superlative Films/Depth of Field)
Margot Robbie in I, Tonya (30WEST and NEON)
Lois Smith in Marjorie Prime (FilmRise)
Breakthrough Series – Long Form
Atlanta
Donald Glover, creator; Donald Glover, Dianne McGunigle, Paul Simms, executive producers (FX Networks) (WINNER)
Better Things
Pamela Adlon, Louis C.K., creators; Dave Becky, M. Blair Breard, Louis C.K., Pamela Adlon, executive producers (FX Networks)
Dear White People
Justin Simien, creator; Yvette Bowser, Justin Simien, Stephanie Allain, Julia Lebedev, executive producers (Netflix)
Fleabag
Phoebe Waller-Bridge, creator; Phoebe Waller-Bridge, Harry Williams, Jack Williams, executive producers (Amazon)
Search Party
Sarah-Violet Bliss, Charles Rogers, Michael Showalter, creators; Sarah-Violet Bliss, Charles Rogers, Michael Showalter, Tony Hernandez, Lilly Burns,  executive producers (TBS)
Bingham Ray Breakthrough Director Award
Jordan Peele for Get Out (Universal Pictures) (WINNER)
Maggie Betts for Novitiate (Sony Pictures Classics)
Greta Gerwig for Lady Bird (A24)
Kogonada for Columbus (Superlative Films/Depth of Field)
Joshua Z Weinstein for Menashe (A24)
Breakthrough Actor
Timothée Chalamet in Call Me by Your Name (Sony Pictures Classics) (WINNER)
Mary J. Blige in Mudbound (Netflix)
Harris Dickinson in Beach Rats (NEON)
Kelvin Harrison Jr. in It Comes at Night (A24)
Brooklynn Prince in The Florida Project (A24)
Breakthrough Series – Short Form
The Strange Eyes of Dr. Myes
Nancy Andrews, creator (YouTube) (WINNER)
555
Kate Berlant, Andrew DeYoung and John Early, creators (Vimeo)
Inconceivable
Joel Ashton McCarthy, creator (YouTube)
Junior
Zoe Cassavetes, creator (Blackpills and VICE)
Let Me Die a Nun
Sarah Salovaara, creator (Vimeo)
Best Screenplay
Get Out, Jordan Peele (Universal Pictures) (WINNER)
The Big Sick, Emily V. Gordon and Kumail Nanjiani (Amazon Studios)
Brad’s Status, Mike White (Amazon Studios)
Call Me by Your Name, James Ivory (Sony Pictures Classics)
Columbus, Kogonada (Superlative Films/Depth of Field)
Lady Bird, Greta Gerwig (A24)
Audience Award
Get Out (WINNER)
Call Me by Your Name
Columbus
Ex Libris – The New York Public Library
The Florida Project
Good Time
I, Tonya
Lady Bird
Menashe
Novitiate
Rat Film
Strong Island
Whose Streets?
The Work
* The 2017 Best Actor/Best Actress nominating committee also voted to award a special Gotham Jury Award for ensemble performance to Mudbound, The award will go to actors Carey Mulligan, Garrett Hedlund, Jason Clarke, Jason Mitchell, Mary J. Blige, Rob Morgan, and Jonathan Banks.

Some quick initial thoughts. Get Out seems like it’s going to be one of the darlings of the precursor season. The Disaster Artist keeps picking up wins here and there. The Post might be more popular than I expected, due to how timely it is. The Shape of Water has been completely shut out so far. Same for Darkest Hour. Three Billboards Outside Ebbing, Missouri hasn’t caught on just yet. All of these tidbits are interesting, but don’t tell the whole story yet. A lot still is to be determined. We’re only a few weeks out from Golden Globe nominations though, so expect a deluge of precursors. It’s that time of year…
Stay tuned for lots more precursors to come!
