
It was only a matter of time. Perhaps the biggest X factor all season long has been what to make of The Post, Steven Spielberg’s latest film. Centered on the epic fight that The Washington Post had with the United States government over the right to publish the infamous Pentagon Papers, this is Academy catnip. Until now though, it had been completely unseen. We were just going by the fact that Spielberg working with Tom Hanks and Meryl Streep, plus the subject matter, makes it a force to reckon with. Now, a Trailer has dropped, just a few hours ago. You’ll be able to see it shortly, but first…a tiny bit of discussion is in order.
The film is described by 20th Century Fox like this: “Steven Spielberg directs Meryl Streep and Tom Hanks in The Post, a thrilling drama about the unlikely partnership between The Washington Post’s Katharine Graham (Streep), the first female publisher of a major American newspaper, and editor Ben Bradlee (Hanks), as they race to catch up with The New York Times to expose a massive cover-up of government secrets that spanned three decades and four U.S. Presidents. The two must overcome their differences as they risk their careers – and their very freedom – to help bring long-buried truths to light.
The Post marks the first time Meryl Streep, Tom Hanks and Steven Spielberg have collaborated on a project. In addition to directing, Spielberg produces along with Amy Pascal and Kristie Macosko Krieger. The script was written by Liz Hannah and Josh Singer, and the film features an acclaimed ensemble cast including Alison Brie, Carrie Coon, David Cross, Bruce Greenwood, Tracy Letts, Bob Odenkirk, Sarah Paulson, Jesse Plemons, Matthew Rhys, Michael Stuhlbarg, Bradley Whitford and Zach Woods.” Spielberg regulars
Janusz Kaminski and John Williams handle cinematography and the score, respectively.
By the looks of this Trailer, we have a contender on our hands. The rumors about this being a troubled production may or may not have been true, but at the very least, this preview should put most worries to rest. Hanks is in his comfort zone, specifically his Spielberg comfort zone, while Streep is probably locked into another Oscar nomination with a baity role like this. Obviously, this is a timely project, one that audiences and voters should tap into quite profoundly. Honestly, the flick only has to be good in order to show up places, so anything great or better means we might be in store for some wins. More on that next.
Academy Award love could easily be on the horizon for The Post. An across the board campaign from 20th Century Fox is a foregone conclusion, so look for FYC ads citing Best Picture, Best Director (for Spielberg), Best Actor (for Hanks), Best Actress (for Streep), Best Supporting Actor (Greenwood, Odenkirk, and/or Whitford), Best Supporting Actress (for Paulson), Best Original Screenplay (for Hannah and Singer), Best Production Design, Best Cinematography, Best Costume Design, Best Film Editing, Best Makeup & Hairstyling, and Best Original Score. A half dozen nominations shouldn’t be hard to come by if this movie is up to snuff. If it’s above and beyond…watch out.
You can see Trailer for The Post below, though be warned that this will end up one of 2017’s final contenders to screen, give or take a sudden bow at the upcoming AFI Fest. Currently, it’s scheduled for a qualifying run on December 22nd (select theaters is what they say), with a wide release on January 12th. Until then, it’ll be more speculation for this one, though the buzz needle is pointed in the upwards direction. Sit tight, as we’ll have plenty more to say about Spielberg’s latest before all is said and done. Right now though, there’s enough talk. It’s time for you to see a little something for yourself…
Here now is the Trailer for The Post:

Stay tuned for lots more to come on The Post between now and the end of the year!
