
The 21st Annual “Hollywood Film Awards” brought together Hollywood’s elite to honor the year’s most talked about, and highly anticipated, actors, actresses, films and those who help bring them to life. The awards ceremony, celebrating its 21st anniversary as the official launch of the awards season®, was hosted by actor and comedian James Corden, and took place at The Beverly Hilton in Beverly Hills, on November 5, 2017.  

In its 21-year history, more than 120 of the “Hollywood Film Awards” honorees have gone on to garner Oscar nominations and/or wins. 

Above, Allen Shapiro, CEO, Dick Clark Pro., Carlos de Abreu, Founder/Executive Producer, Janice de Abreu, Co-Founder,Pete Hammond, journalist, Deadline.com 
This year’s ceremony benefited MPTF, which supports the entertainment community in living and aging well, with dignity and purpose, and in helping each other in times of need.

The show was filled with humor, excitement, and intimate moments, as honorees proudly showcased the work that they were being recognized for. Kate Winslet and Allison Janney shared a passionate moment on stage after “Hollywood Actress Award” winner Winslet admitted that despite never having met the I, Tonya actress, she’d really like to be her and perhaps even lock lips – Janney obliged.

Sean Combs made his “Hollywood Documentary Award” acceptance speech short and sweet as he explained that he was coming off of a three-day birthday trip to Mexico and took the time to thank his six children and mother. 

Angelina Jolie delivered a powerful speech while accepting the “Hollywood Foreign Language Film Award” for First They Killed My Father, alongside writer Loung Ung.   The two women spoke of the struggle facing all Cambodian artists and thanked the brave crewmembers who stepped forward to help make this film possible, despite a formidable regime working against them. Andra Day and Common brought the house down with a show stopping performance of their “Hollywood Song Award” winning anthem “Stand Up for Something” from the film Marshall. While accepting the award, writer Diane Warren commented on the anti-hate, pro-love message of the song, remarking that she never could have imagined “how timely it would be.” (Photo by Chris Pizzello/Invision/AP)

“Hollywood Actor Award” honoree Jake Gyllenhaal used his platform to express his whole-hearted admiration for Jeff Bauman, the real-life Boston Marathon bombing survivor he portrays in Stronger. He accepted the award “with the hope that [he] can live up to the example of [Jeff’s] life.”  Also, honored with the “Hollywood Supporting Actor Award” veteran actor Sam Rockwell for his brilliant performance in “Three Billboards Outside Ebbing, Montana.”

Kumail Nanjiani, who accepted the “Hollywood Comedy Ensemble Award” on behalf of the cast of The Big Sick, delivered an expectedly funny and heartfelt speech, offering thanks to fellow actors Holly Hunter, Zoe Kazan, and Ray Romano for pouring themselves into telling the true story of his life with now wife Emily Gordon. He said he owes them a favor, “a ride from the airport or help moving,” but jokingly rescinded the offer to Ray, who “upgraded” to a seat at Kate Winslet’s table, leaving his cast mates behind. 

Harrison Ford, who was on hand to present the “Hollywood Producer Award” to the team from Blade Runner 2049, received a standing ovation when he took the stage, even after host Corden joked that Ford couldn’t stay for long because his private jet was parked out in the middle of the street. 

Melissa McCarthy showed up for her good friend Allison Janney to give her the “Hollywood Supporting Actress Award,” beginning her presentation by declaring “Allison Janney is not a good actor. Not a good mimic,” but quickly reassuring everyone that it is only because she is “so much more” that any of those things. The final award of the evening was given to acting legend Gary Oldman. The “Hollywood Career Achievement Award” honoree delivered a dignified speech, thanking his cast, crew and several of his icons who were in the room.

This year’s award show honored the following:
“Hollywood Career Achievement Award”
Gary Oldman
“Hollywood Actor Award”
Jake Gyllenhaal for Stronger, presented by Amy Adams
“Hollywood Supporting Actor Award”
Sam Rockwell for Three Billboards Outside Ebbing, Montana, presented by Vince Vaughn
“Hollywood Actress Award”
Kate Winslet for Wonder Wheel, presented by Shailene Woodley

“Hollywood Supporting Actress Award”
Allison Janney for I, Tonya, presented by Melissa McCarthy

“Hollywood Comedy Award”
Adam Sandler for The Meyerowitz Stories, presented by Dustin Hoffman
“Hollywood Breakout Performance Actress Award”
Mary J. Blige for Mudbound, presented by Viola Davis

“Hollywood Breakout Performance Actor Award”
Timothée Chalamet for Call Me By Your Name, presented by Dakota Johnson

“New Hollywood Award”
Jamie Bell for Film Stars Don’t Die in Liverpool, presented by Annette Bening

“Hollywood Documentary Award”
Sean Combs for Can’t Stop Won’t Stop: Bad Boy Story
“Hollywood Ensemble Award”
I, Tonya cast including Margot Robbie, Allison Janney, Sebastian Stan, Julianne Nicholson, Mckenna Grace, and Caitlin Carver, presented by Noomi Rapace

“Hollywood Comedy Ensemble Award”
The Bick Sick cast including Kumail Nanjiani, Holly Hunter, Zoe Kazan, and Ray Romano, presented by Jon Favreau

“Hollywood Breakout Ensemble Award”
Mudbound cast including Carey Mulligan, Garrett Hedlund, Mary J. Blige, Jason Mitchell, Jason Clarke, Rob Morgan, and Jonathan Banks, presented by Janelle Monáe

“Hollywood Song Award”
Common, Andra Day, and Diane Warren for “STAND UP FOR SOMETHING” from Marshall
“Hollywood Foreign Language Film Award”
Angelina Jolie and Loung Ung for First They Killed My Father, presented by Jacqueline Bisset

“Hollywood Director Award”
Joe Wright for Darkest Hour, presented by Bryce Dallas Howard

“Hollywood Breakthrough Director Award”
Taylor Sheridan for Wind River, presented by Elizabeth Olsen

“Hollywood Producer Award”
Broderick Johnson, Andrew Kosove, and Cynthia Yorkin for Blade Runner 2049, presented by Harrison Ford

“Hollywood Screenwriter Award”
Scott Neustadter and Michael H. Weber for The Disaster Artist, presented by James Franco

“Hollywood Animation Award”
Coco, presented by Eva Longoria
“Hollywood Cinematography Award”
Roger Deakins for Blade Runner 2049
“Hollywood Film Composer Award”
Thomas Newman for Victoria & Abdul
“Hollywood Editor Award”
Sidney Wolinsky for The Shape of Water
“Hollywood Visual Effects Award”
Joe Letteri, Dan Lemmon, Dan Barrett and Erik Winquist for War for the Planet of the Apes
“Hollywood Sound Award”
Addison Teague & Dave Acord for Guardians of the Galaxy Vol. 2
“Hollywood Costume Design Award”
Jacqueline Durran for Darkest Hour and Beauty and the Beast
“Hollywood Make Up & Hair Styling Award”
Jenny Shircore for Beauty and the Beast
“Hollywood Production Design Award”
Dennis Gassner for Blade Runner 2049
Honoree Portraits are available on the show’s Instagram page. Host, presenter and acceptance speech video clips are available on the show’s official Facebook and Twitter pages. For all information and highlights, please visit the website for the Hollywood Film Awards.
CHEAT TWEET: The 21st Annual @hollywoodawards marked the launch of awards season with a star-studded evening: hfas.news/2017 #HFAs
For the latest news, follow the “Hollywood Film Awards” on social and join the conversation by using the official hashtag for the show, #HollywoodAwards.
Twitter: @HollywoodAwards
Facebook: Facebook.com/HollywoodAwards
PHOTOS COURTESY HOLLYWOOD FILM AWARDS
