
With November well upon us, we’re moving ever closer and closer to the Academy Award precursors. Of all the precursors, few are considered as glamorous as the Golden Globes. They may not impact Oscar in a huge way, but being a televised show gives them some added luster. As such, covering what the Hollywood Foreign Press Association (or HFPA, for short) is a notable endeavor. Golden Globe picks will continue to evolve over the next few months, obviously, but right now I feel like we have a decent sense of what might be legitimately in play, category wise. Read on for more…
This time, my Globe predictions are continuing to basically reflect how I think the season will go. The HFPA tend to prefer big names to unknowns, with celebrities faring even better. That could push a few contenders higher here than elsewhere, like Adam Sandler in The Meyerowitz Stories (New and Selected), so keep an eye out for that. Otherwise, the big Academy players will be significant forces with the Globes as well. Darkest Hour and Dunkirk will see big competition from Three Billboards Outside Ebbing, Missouri for Best Picture (Drama), while The Disaster Artist, The Greatest Showman, I, Tonya, Lady Bird seem on a collision course in Best Picture (Comedy or Musical). We shall find out what happens in due time, but for the moment, my picks are below for your perusal. Take a gander and see for yourself.

Here now is a second look at my Golden Globe predictions for 2017:
Best Picture (Drama)
1. Three Billboards Outside Ebbing, Missouri
2. Dunkirk
3. Darkest Hour
4. The Shape of Water
5. Call Me By Your Name
If there’s a sixth: Phantom Thread
If there’s a seventh: The Post
Best Picture (Comedy or Musical)
1. I, Tonya
2. The Disaster Artist
3. Lady Bird
4. The Big Sick
5. The Greatest Showman
If there’s a sixth: Get Out
If there’s a seventh: Battle of the Sexes
Best Actor (Drama)
1. Gary Oldman – Darkest Hour
2. Daniel Day-Lewis – Phantom Thread
3. Jake Gyllenhaal – Stronger
4. Ryan Gosling – Blade Runner 2049
5. Andrew Garfield – Breathe
If there’s a sixth: Jeremy Renner – Wind River
If there’s a seventh: Tom Hanks – The Post
Best Actor (Comedy or Musical)
1. James Franco – The Disaster Artist
2. Adam Sandler – The Meyerowitz Stories (New and Selected)
3. Steve Carell – Battle of the Sexes
4. Hugh Jackman – The Greatest Showman
5. Kumail Nanjani – The Big Sick
If there’s a sixth: Matt Damon – Downsizing
If there’s a seventh: Daniel Kaluuya – Get Out
Best Actress (Drama)
1. Frances McDormand – Three Billboards Outside Ebbing, Missouri
2. Jessica Chastain – Molly’s Game
3. Sally Hawkins – The Shape of Water
4. Meryl Streep – The Post
5. Jennifer Lawrence – mother!
If there’s a sixth: Kate Winslet – Wonder Wheel
If there’s a seventh: Diane Kruger – In the Fade
Best Actress (Comedy or Musical)
1. Margot Robbie – I, Tonya
2. Emma Stone – Battle of the Sexes
3. Saoirse Ronan – Lady Bird
4. Judi Dench – Victoria & Abdul
5. Zoe Kazan – The Big Sick
If there’s a sixth: Annette Bening – Film Stars Don’t Die in Liverpool
If there’s a seventh: Salma Hayek – Beatriz At Dinner
Best Supporting Actor
1. Sam Rockwell – Three Billboards Outside Ebbing, Missouri
2. Willem Dafoe – The Florida Project
3. Bryan Cranston – Last Flag Flying
4. Daniel Craig – Logan Lucky
5. Mark Rylance – Dunkirk
If there’s a sixth: Armie Hammer – Call Me By Your Name
If there’s a seventh: Ben Mendelsohn – Darkest Hour
Best Supporting Actress
1. Allison Janney – I, Tonya
2. Laurie Metcalf – Lady Bird
3. Hong Chau – Downsizing
4. Michelle Pfeiffer – mother!
5. Claire Foy – Breathe
If there’s a sixth: Michelle Williams – The Greatest Showman
If there’s a seventh: Holly Hunter – The Big Sick
Best Director
1. Christopher Nolan – Dunkirk
2. Guillermo del Toro – The Shape of Water
3. Martin McDonagh – Three Billboards Outside Ebbing, Missouri
4. Joe Wright – Darkest Hour
5. James Franco – The Disaster Artist
If there’s a sixth: Luca Guadagnino – Call Me By Your Name
If there’s a seventh: Steven Spielberg – The Post
Best Screenplay
1. Three Billboards Outside Ebbing, Missouri
2. Molly’s Game
3. The Disaster Artist
4. The Shape of Water
5. Call Me By Your Name
If there’s a sixth: Darkest Hour
If there’s a seventh: The Big Sick
Best Animated Feature
1. Coco
2. Loving Vincent
3. Ferdinand
4. The LEGO Batman Movie
5. Cars 3
Best Original Score
1. Dunkirk
2. Star Wars: The Last Jedi
3. Three Billboards Outside Ebbing, Missouri
4. The Shape of Water
5. Darkest Hour
Best Original Song
1. The Greatest Showman
2. The Hero
3. Coco
4. Beauty and the Beast
5. Detroit
Best Foreign Film
1. First They Killed My Father
2. BPM: Beats Per Minute
3. In the Fade
4. The Square
5. The Divine Order

Stay tuned for a brand new set of Academy Award predictions later on this week as well as another update to these early Golden Globe predictions sometime in the next month or so!
