
dick clark productions announced today that prolific actor, Gary Oldman, will receive the “Hollywood Career Achievement Award” at the 21st Annual “Hollywood Film Awards.” Gary Oldman’s career has spanned over three decades and includes an Oscar nomination, Emmy nomination, SAG nomination, two BAFTA Awards, and countless memorable roles including Sid Vicious (Sid & Nancy), Dracula (Bram Stoker’s Dracula), Sirius Black (Harry Potter franchise), Commissioner Gordon (The Dark Knight series), George Smiley (Tinker, Tailor, Soldier, Spy), and most recently playing Winston Churchill in Darkest Hour. During the early days of World War II, with the fall of France imminent, Britain faces its darkest hour as the threat of invasion looms.  As the seemingly unstoppable Nazi forces advance, and with the Allied army cornered on the beaches of Dunkirk, the fate of Western Europe hangs on the leadership of the newly-appointed British Prime Minister Winston Churchill (Gary Oldman).  While maneuvering his political rivals, he must confront the ultimate choice: negotiate with Hitler and save the British people at a terrible cost or rally the nation and fight on against incredible odds.
The 2017 “Hollywood Film Awards,” known as the official launch of the awards season®, will be hosted by actor and comedian James Corden for the third consecutive year and will take place at The Beverly Hilton in Beverly Hills, CA, on Sunday, November 5, 2017. The ceremony, which honors the most acclaimed films and actors while previewing highly anticipated films and talent for the upcoming year, also acknowledges artists in the categories of Cinematography, Visual Effects, Film Composing, Costume Design, Editing, Production Design, Sound and Makeup & Hairstyling. In its 21-year history, more than 120 of the “Hollywood Film Awards” honorees have gone on to garner Oscar nominations and/or wins. This year’s ceremony will benefit MPTF, which supports the entertainment community in living and aging well, with dignity and purpose, and in helping each other in times of need.
ABOUT THE HONOREE
Gary Oldman – An acclaimed presence in motion pictures for 30 years, Gary Oldman is regarded as one of the foremost actors of his generation. He is known to millions the world over for his iconic characterizations of Sirius Black (Harry Potter’s godfather), Commissioner Jim Gordon (Batman/Bruce Wayne’s crime-fighting partner), Dracula, Beethoven, Lee Harvey Oswald, Joe Orton, Sid Vicious, and George Smiley. The latter portrayal, in John LeCarre’s Tinker, Tailor, Soldier, Spy, brought him accolades worldwide including BAFTA Award, British Independent Film Award, European Film Award, and Academy Award nominations for Best Actor. In 2011, he was honored with the Empire Awards’ Icon Award for Achievement and with a Career Tribute at the Gotham Independent Film Awards. At the 2014 London Critics’ Circle Film Awards, he was honored with the Dilys Powell Award for Excellence in Film. The UK native has starred in 13 movies that have opened in the #1 position at the box office. As part of the two most successful franchises in movie history, was in Harry Potter and the Prisoner of Azkaban, Harry Potter and the Goblet of Fire, Harry Potter and the Order of the Phoenix, and Harry Potter and the Deathly Hallows Part 2, directed by Alfonso Cuarón, Mike Newell, and David Yates, respectively; and Christopher Nolan’s Batman Begins, The Dark Knight, and The Dark Knight Rises. Mr. Oldman’s acting career began in 1979, and for several years he worked exclusively in the theatre; from 1985 through 1989, he alternated film work with stage work at London’s Royal Court Theatre. Among his early telefilms were Mike Leigh’s Meantime and the late Alan Clarke’s The Firm. His features include Alex Cox’s Sid and Nancy; Stephen Frears’ Prick Up Your Ears; Tom Stoppard’s Rosencrantz & Guildenstern Are Dead; Phil Joanou’s State of Grace; Oliver Stone’s JFK; Francis Ford Coppola’s Bram Stoker’s Dracula; Tony Scott’s True Romance; Bernard Rose’s Immortal Beloved; Luc Besson’s The Professional (a.k.a. Leon) and The Fifth Element; Wolfgang Petersen’s Air Force One; Ridley Scott’s Hannibal; Albert and Allen Hughes’ The Book of Eli; Daniel Espinosa’s Child 44; and Matt Reeves’ Dawn of the Planet of the Apes. With Douglas Urbanski, Mr. Oldman produced the feature Nil by Mouth. The film marked his screenwriting and directing debut, and was selected to world premiere as the opening main competition film of the 1997 [50th Anniversary of the] Cannes International Film Festival, at which the film’s leading lady Kathy Burke won the Best Actress award. Subsequent honors for Nil by Mouth included the prestigious Channel Four Director’s Prize, at the Edinburgh International Film Festival; six British Independent Film Award (BIFA) nominations, and three wins including for Ms. Burke and her fellow actors Ray Winstone and Laila Morse; the BAFTA Award for Best Original Screenplay as well as BAFTA’s Alexander Korda Award for the Outstanding British Film of the Year, the latter shared by Mr. Oldman and Mr. Urbanski. The team’s subsequent productions have included Rod Lurie’s The Contender, starring Joan Allen and Jeff Bridges. The film received two Academy Award, two Golden Globe Award, and three Screen Actors Guild Award nominations, including one for Best Supporting Actor (Mr. Oldman); and the ensemble and the writer/director were honored with the Broadcast Film Critics Association’s Alan J. Pakula Award.
Previously announced honorees include Adam Sandler for “Hollywood Comedy Award” for the film The Meyerowitz Stories; Joe Wright for “Hollywood Director Award” for the film Darkest Hour; Kate Winslet for “Hollywood Actress Award” for the film Wonder Wheel; Jake Gyllenhaal for “Hollywood Actor Award” for the film Stonger; the cast of The Big Sick including Kumail Nanjiani, Zoe Kazan, Holly Hunter and Ray Romano for “Hollywood Comedy Ensemble Award”; Jamie Bell for “New Hollywood Actor Award” for Film Stars Don’t Die in Liverpool; musicians Diane Warren, Common and Andra Day for the original song, “Stand Up For Something” with music by Diane Warren, lyrics by Diane Warren and Common and performed by Andra Day featuring Common from the film Marshall for “Hollywood Song Award”; Blade Runner 2049 producers Andrew S. Kosove, Broderick Johnson and Cynthia Sikes Yorkin for “Hollywood Producer Award”; The Disaster Artist screenwriters Scott Neustadter and Michael H. Weber for “Hollywood Screenwriter Award”; Coco for “Hollywood Animation Award”; the cast of Mudbound including Carey Mulligan, Garrett Hedlund, Mary J. Blige, Jason Mitchell, Jason Clarke, Rob Morgan and Jonathan Banks for the “Hollywood Breakout Ensemble Award”; Sam Rockwell for “Hollywood Supporting Actor Award” for his role in Three Billboards Outside Ebbing, Missouri; Allison Janney for “Hollywood Supporting Actress Award” for her role in I, Tonya; Mary J. Blige for “Hollywood Breakout Performance Actress Award” for her work in the film Mudbound; Timothée Chalamet for “Hollywood Breakout Performance Actor Award” for his role in the film Call Me By Your Name; and the cast of I, Tonya, including Margot Robbie, Allison Janney, Sebastian Stan, Paul Walter Hauser, Julianne Nicholson and Caitlin Carver for the “Hollywood Ensemble Award.”
Additional honorees for the 21st Annual “Hollywood Film Awards” will be announced in the coming weeks.
