
dick clark productions announced today that Oscar-winner Angelina Jolie, and author-activist Loung Ung will receive the “Hollywood Foreign Language Film Award,” at the 21st Annual “Hollywood Film Awards” for their critically-acclaimed film First They Killed My Father, which has been selected by Cambodia’s Oscar submission for Best Foreign Language Film.   
Jolie also directed the film and co-wrote the screenplay with Ung, who also serves as executive producer and whose gripping memoir the film is based upon.
Loung was five years old when the Khmer Rouge came to power, and the story is told through her eyes, from 1975 through 1978, depicting the indomitable spirit and devotion of her family as they struggle to stay together.  
Acclaimed Cambodian director and producer Rithy Panh, who is himself a survivor of the Khmer Rouge, and produced First They Killed My Father together with Jolie said, “We are grateful for this recognition by the HFA.  In Cambodia, the film was welcomed with such success, a success beyond the normal commercial measure, with a much deeper and with lasting impact. This film comes at a time where 70% of the Cambodian population is under 30 years old. This generation is just starting to ask questions about the history of the country.  This film serves as a bridge to connect them with their history.”
The 2017 “Hollywood Film Awards,” known as the official launch of the awards season®, will be hosted by actor and comedian James Corden for the third consecutive year and will take place at The Beverly Hilton in Beverly Hills, CA, on Sunday, November 5, 2017. The ceremony, which honors the most acclaimed films and actors while previewing highly anticipated films and talent for the upcoming year, also acknowledges artists in the categories of Cinematography, Visual Effects, Film Composing, Costume Design, Editing, Production Design, Sound and Makeup & Hairstyling. In its 21-year history, more than 120 of the “Hollywood Film Awards” honorees have gone on to garner Oscar nominations and/or wins. This year’s ceremony will benefit MPTF, which supports the entertainment community in living and aging well, with dignity and purpose, and in helping each other in times of need.
Previously announced honorees include Roger Deakins will receive “Hollywood Cinematography Award” for Blade Runner 2049; Thomas Newman will receive “Hollywood Film Composer Award” for Victoria & Abdul; Sidney Wollinsky will receive “Hollywood Editor Award” for The Shape of Water; Joe Letteri, Dan Lemmon, Dan Barrett and Erik Winquist will receive “Hollywood Visual Effects Award” for War of the Plant of the Apes; Jacqueline Duran will receive “Hollwyood Costume Design Award” for both Darkest Hour and Beauty and the Beast; Jenny Shircore will receive “Hollywood Make-Up & Hair Styling Award” for Beauty and the Beast; Dennis Gassner will receive “Hollywood Production Design Award” for Blade Runner; Addison Teague and Dave Acord will receive “Hollywood Sound Award” for Guardians of the Galazy, Vol. 2; Gary Oldman for “Hollywood Career Achievement Award” highlighting his work in Darkest Hour; Adam Sandler for “Hollywood Comedy Award” for The Meyerowitz Stories; Joe Wright for “Hollywood Director Award” for Darkest Hour; Kate Winslet for “Hollywood Actress Award” for the film Wonder Wheel; Jake Gyllenhaal for “Hollywood Actor Award” for the film Stonger; the cast of The Big Sick including Kumail Nanjiani, Zoe Kazan, Holly Hunter and Ray Romano for “Hollywood Comedy Ensemble Award”; Jamie Bell for “New Hollywood Actor Award” for Film Stars Don’t Die in Liverpool; musicians Diane Warren, Common and Andra Day for the original song, “Stand Up For Something” with music by Diane Warren, lyrics by Diane Warren and Common and performed by Andra Day featuring Common from the film Marshall for “Hollywood Song Award”; Blade Runner 2049 producers Andrew S. Kosove, Broderick Johnson and Cynthia Sikes Yorkin for “Hollywood Producer Award”; The Disaster Artist screenwriters Scott Neustadter and Michael H. Weber for “Hollywood Screenwriter Award”; Coco for “Hollywood Animation Award”; the cast of Mudbound including Carey Mulligan, Garrett Hedlund, Mary J. Blige, Jason Mitchell, Jason Clarke, Rob Morgan and Jonathan Banks for the “Hollywood Breakout Ensemble Award”; Sam Rockwell for “Hollywood Supporting Actor Award” for his role in Three Billboards Outside Ebbing, Missouri; Allison Janney for “Hollywood Supporting Actress Award” for her role in I, Tonya; Mary J. Blige for “Hollywood Breakout Performance Actress Award” for her work in the film Mudbound; Timothée Chalamet for “Hollywood Breakout Performance Actor Award” for his role in the film Call Me By Your Name; and the cast of I, Tonya, including Margot Robbie, Allison Janney, Sebastian Stan, Paul Walter Hauser, Julianne Nicholson and Caitlin Carver for the “Hollywood Ensemble Award.”
