
dick clark productions announced today that producer, songwriter and music superstar, Sean “Diddy” Combs, will receive the “Hollywood Documentary Award” for Live Nation Productions and Apple Music’s Can’t Stop Won’t Stop: A Bad Boy Story, which features Sean Combs, Faith Evans, Lil’ Kim, Mase, 112 and Notorious B.I.G. at the 21st Annual “Hollywood Film Awards.” Actress Kate Beckinsale will be in attendance to present the honor to Mr. Combs.
The 2017 “Hollywood Film Awards,” known as the official launch of the awards season®, will be hosted by actor and comedian James Corden for the third consecutive year and will take place at The Beverly Hilton in Beverly Hills, CA, on Sunday, November 5, 2017. The ceremony, which honors the most acclaimed films and actors while previewing highly anticipated films and talent for the upcoming year, also acknowledges artists in the categories of Cinematography, Visual Effects, Film Composing, Costume Design, Editing, Production Design, Sound and Makeup & Hairstyling. In its 21-year history, more than 120 of the “Hollywood Film Awards” honorees have gone on to garner Oscar nominations and/or wins. This year’s ceremony will benefit MPTF, which supports the entertainment community in living and aging well, with dignity and purpose, and in helping each other in times of need.
ABOUT THE HONOREE
Can’t Stop Won’t Stop – Directed by Daniel Kaufman and produced by Sean Combs and Heather Parry, the film is a raw and exclusive look behind the scenes at the history and legacy of Bad Boy through a complex portrait of the label’s mastermind, Combs, as he tries to reunite his Bad Boy Family during a frantic three-week rehearsal period. As the biggest names from Bad Boy’s history prepare to celebrate the label’s 20th anniversary, the film traces the label’s emergence in Harlem and Brooklyn, follows its meteoric rise, explores the tragic death of Biggie Smalls, and celebrates Bad Boy’s influence in reshaping music, fashion, marketing and culture — all while revealing the love and commitment that formed the bonds between the Bad Boy family. The film culminates with the May 2016 performances at the Barclays Center in Brooklyn when iconic artists Puff Daddy, Lil’ Kim, Mase, Faith Evans, Mario Winans, 112, Total, Carl Thomas, and The Lox performed hit after hit to a sold-out audience.
Previously announced honorees include Angelina Jolie for “Hollywood Foreign Language Film Award” for the film First They Killed My Father; Roger Deakins will receive “Hollywood Cinematography Award” for Blade Runner 2049; Thomas Newman will receive “Hollywood Film Composer Award” for Victoria & Abdul; Sidney Wollinsky will receive “Hollywood Editor Award” for The Shape of Water; Joe Letteri, Dan Lemmon, Dan Barrett and Erik Winquist will receive “Hollywood Visual Effects Award” for War of the Plant of the Apes; Jacqueline Duran will receive “Hollwyood Costume Design Award” for both Darkest Hour and Beauty and the Beast; Jenny Shircore will receive “Hollywood Make-Up & Hair Styling Award” for Beauty and the Beast; Dennis Gassner will receive “Hollywood Production Design Award” for Blade Runner; Addison Teague and Dave Acord will receive “Hollywood Sound Award” for Guardians of the Galazy, Vol. 2; Gary Oldman for “Hollywood Career Achievement Award” highlighting his work in Darkest Hour; Adam Sandler for “Hollywood Comedy Award” for The Meyerowitz Stories; Joe Wright for “Hollywood Director Award” for Darkest Hour; Kate Winslet for “Hollywood Actress Award” for the film Wonder Wheel; Jake Gyllenhaal for “Hollywood Actor Award” for the film Stonger; the cast of The Big Sick including Kumail Nanjiani, Zoe Kazan, Holly Hunter and Ray Romano for “Hollywood Comedy Ensemble Award”; Jamie Bell for “New Hollywood Actor Award” for Film Stars Don’t Die in Liverpool; musicians Diane Warren, Common and Andra Day for the original song, “Stand Up For Something” with music by Diane Warren, lyrics by Diane Warren and Common and performed by Andra Day featuring Common from the film Marshall for “Hollywood Song Award”; Blade Runner 2049 producers Andrew S. Kosove, Broderick Johnson and Cynthia Sikes Yorkin for “Hollywood Producer Award”; The Disaster Artist screenwriters Scott Neustadter and Michael H. Weber for “Hollywood Screenwriter Award”; Coco for “Hollywood Animation Award”; the cast of Mudbound including Carey Mulligan, Garrett Hedlund, Mary J. Blige, Jason Mitchell, Jason Clarke, Rob Morgan and Jonathan Banks for the “Hollywood Breakout Ensemble Award”; Sam Rockwell for “Hollywood Supporting Actor Award” for his role in Three Billboards Outside Ebbing, Missouri; Allison Janney for “Hollywood Supporting Actress Award” for her role in I, Tonya; Mary J. Blige for “Hollywood Breakout Performance Actress Award” for her work in the film Mudbound; Timothée Chalamet for “Hollywood Breakout Performance Actor Award” for his role in the film Call Me By Your Name; and the cast of I, Tonya, including Margot Robbie, Allison Janney, Sebastian Stan, Paul Walter Hauser, Julianne Nicholson and Caitlin Carver for the “Hollywood Ensemble Award.”
CHEAT TWEET: .@diddy will receive the Hollywood Documentary Award for ‘Can’t Stop Won’t Stop: A Bad Boy Story’ at the @hollywoodawards: hfas.news/honorees9
For the latest news, follow the “Hollywood Film Awards” on social and join the conversation by using the official hashtag for the show, #HollywoodAwards.
Twitter: @HollywoodAwards
Facebook: Facebook.com/HollywoodAwards
Instagram: @hollywoodawards
Tumblr: hollywoodawards.tumblr.com
Snapchat: hollywoodawards
About dick clark productions
dick clark productions (dcp) is the world’s largest producer and proprietor of televised live event entertainment programming with the “Academy of Country Music Awards,” “American Music Awards,” “Billboard Music Awards,” “Golden Globe Awards,” “Dick Clark’s New Year’s Rockin’ Eve with Ryan Seacrest,” “Hollywood Film Awards” and the “Streamy Awards.” Weekly television programming includes “So You Think You Can Dance” from 19 Entertainment and dcp. dcp also owns one of the world’s most unique and extensive entertainment archive libraries with over 60 years of award-winning shows, historic programs, specials, performances and legendary programming. For additional information, visit www.dickclark.com.
About The Hollywood Film Awards® 
The Hollywood Film Awards®, founded in 1997, were created to celebrate Hollywood and launch the awards season. The recipients of the awards are selected by an Advisory Team for their body of work and/or a film(s) that is to be released during the calendar year. For additional information, visit www.hollywoodawards.com.
