
dick clark productions announced today that Adam Sandler will receive the “Hollywood Comedy Award” for his performance in the Netflix feature film, The Meyerowitz Stories, directed by Noah Baumbach, and also starring Ben Stiller and Dustin Hoffman. Director, Joe Wright, will also receive the “Hollywood Director Award” for the Focus Features film Darkest Hour, starring Gary Oldman, about Winston Churchill and the incredible odds he faced during World War II, at the 21st Annual “Hollywood Film Awards.”
The 2017 “Hollywood Film Awards,” known as the official launch of the awards season®, will be hosted by actor and comedian James Corden for the third consecutive year and will take place at The Beverly Hilton in Beverly Hills, CA, on Sunday, November 5, 2017. The ceremony, which honors the most acclaimed films and actors while previewing highly anticipated films and talent for the upcoming year, also acknowledges artists in the categories of Cinematography, Visual Effects, Film Composing, Costume Design, Editing, Production Design, Sound and Makeup & Hairstyling. In its 21-year history, more than 120 of the “Hollywood Film Awards” honorees have gone on to garner Oscar nominations and/or wins. This year’s ceremony will benefit MPTF, which supports the entertainment community in living and aging well, with dignity and purpose, and in helping each other in times of need.

ABOUT THE HONOREES
Adam Sandler – Golden Globe-nominated actor, Adam Sandler, took his first step towards becoming a stand-up comedian when he spontaneously took the stage at a Boston comedy club at the age of 17. He found he was a natural comic. He nurtured his talent while at New York University (graduating with a Bachelor of Fine Arts degree in 1991) by performing regularly in clubs and at universities. During his freshman year, he snagged a recurring role as the Huxtable family’s friend Smitty on The Cosby Show (1984). While working at a comedy club in L.A., he was “discovered” by Dennis Miller, who recommended him to Saturday Night Live (1975) producer Lorne Michaels and told him that Sandler had a big talent. This led to his being cast in the show in 1990, which he also wrote for in addition to performing. After Saturday Night Live (1975), Sandler went on to the movies, starring in such hit comedies as Airheads (1994), Happy Gilmore (1996), Billy Madison (1995) and Big Daddy (1999). He has also starred in Mr. Deeds (2002) alongside Winona Ryder; Eight Crazy Nights (2002), an animated movie about the Jewish festival of Chanukah; and Punch-Drunk Love (2002). He also writes and produces many of his own films and has composed songs for several of them, including The Wedding Singer (1998). Sandler has had several of his songs placed on the “Billboard” charts, including the classic “The Chanukah Song.” 
Joe Wright – Joe Wright is the BAFTA Award-winning and Golden Globe-nominated director behind such acclaimed and award-winning films as Pride & Prejudice, Atonement, Anna Karenina, Hanna, The Soloist and Pan. His upcoming film Darkest Hour, to be released by Focus Features in November 2017, stars Gary Oldman as Winston Churchill leading the charge against Adolf Hitler’s army in the early days of World War II. In the theatre, Wright has directed critically acclaimed West End productions including Trelawny of the Wells, A Season in the Congo, and most recently, Life of Galileo.  Wright is a director of Shoebox Films, a London based film and television production company.
Previously announced honorees include Jake Gyllenhaal for “Hollywood Actor Award” for the film Stonger; Kate Winslet for “Hollywood Actress Award” for the film Wonder Wheel; The Big Sick for “Hollywood Comedy Ensemble Award”; Jamie Bell for “New Hollywood Actor Award” for his role in Film Stars Don’t Die in Liverpool; Common, Andra Day and Diane Warren for “Hollywood Song Award” for the original song “Stand Up For Something” with music by Diane Warren, lyrics by Diane Warren and Commong and performed by Andra Day featuring Common, in the film Marshall; Andrew Kosove, Broderick Johnson and Cynthia Sikes Yorkin for “Hollywood Producer Award” for the film Blade Runner 2049; Scott Neustadter and Michael H. Weber for “Hollywood Screenwriter Award” for The Disaster Artist; Coco for “Hollywood Animation Award”; and Mudbound for “Hollywood Breakout Ensemble” Award; Sam Rockwell for “Hollywood Supporting Actor Award” for his role in Three Billboards Outside Ebbing, Missouri, Allison Janney for “Hollywood Supporting Actress Award” for her role in I, Tonya, Mary J. Blige for “Hollywood Breakout Performance Actress Award” for her work in the film Mudbound; Timothée Chalamet for “Hollywood Breakout Performance Actor Award” for his role in the film Call Me By Your Name; and the cast of I, Tonya including Margot Robbie, Allison Janney, Sebastian Stan, Paul Walter Hauser, Julianne Nicholson and Caitlin Carver for the “Hollywood Ensemble Award.”
