
Welcome to November, if you can believe it, ladies and gentlemen! We’re well into the fourth quarter of the year now, which is still crazy to think about. It also signals the point where it becomes an veritable embarrassment of riches at the cinema. Yes, not only do I have ten really interesting new releases to show you for this month, as is usually the case around this time of year, almost all of my Honorable Mentions would be worthy of inclusion in almost any other month. In fact, two or three really killed me to leave out. You’ll understand momentarily, but just know that this is easily the most stacked month so far. You can’t go wrong even if you tried. It’s just that good a calendar slate…
Here now are the very best cinematic bets for November:
10. Justice League – The elephant in the room this month is how the big DC superhero team up will be received. Will it meet the same fate as Batman v Superman: Dawn of Justice, or will Joss Whedon be able to save the day at the last minute? Odds are, it’ll be somewhere in between. We shall see in a few weeks!
9. Roman J. Israel, Esq. – I see this one next week, and it’s apparently been drastically re-edited after its poor first showing at the Toronto International Film Festival. Hopefully it’s been improved, since the prospect of a legal thriller starring Denzel Washington is a juicy one indeed.
8. Thor: Ragnarok – Marvel’s latest is an absolute riot. Look for more on it in a few days, but for now, just know that it’s their funniest outing to date. Thor is finally done right, and go figure, it’s to essentially make him a comedian. Oh, and Jeff Goldblum is in rare form. A full piece will be running in the days to come, so look forward to that…
7. Coco – Pixar apparently has another hit on their hands with this animated tale. This cartoon is slowly beginning to screen, with incredible buzz attached to it. An almost surefire Academy Award contender, it can liven up the Best Animated Feature race in a very big way. Plenty more soon here!
6. Call Me By Your Name – Sure to be a player this season, I saw this romantic drama back at the New York Film Festival. Same sex romance has had its struggles with Oscar, but hot on the heels of Moonlight, this could really do well. Armie Hammer and company could be on their way to a handful of nominations. 
5. I Love You, Daddy – Louis C.K. has quite the controversial title film on his hands. I got to see it a few weeks ago and it’s very interesting stuff. A cross between his Louie show and a Woody Allen flick, it’s going to generate some passionate conversation, that’s for sure.
4. Last Flag Flying – I’ve written about Richard Linklater’s latest before and will again before the week is out (it also opens this weekend), but it’s only improved in my mind since the debut at NYFF. Steve Carell and Bryan Cranston own this film, one that’s emotional and hilarious in equal measure. It’s one of the year’s best, plain and simple.
3. Darkest Hour – Gary Oldman seems to have Best Actor on lockdown for his turn as Winston Churchill. Moreover, Joe Wright’s biopic of the former Prime Minister seems like one of the big players in Best Picture as well. More will be on the way once I see it next week, so hang tight for more there in the very near future…
2. Lady Bird – Just this week, I raved about Greta Gerwig’s film. It’s truly a wonderful movie, one that I adored back at NYFF and still absolutely love right now. It’s a true delight, with a turn by Laurie Metcalf that could be catnip in Best Supporting Actress. Don’t you dare miss this one when it opens on Friday!
1. Three Billboards Outside Ebbing, Missouri – The second best film I’ve seen so far this year, this is perfect cinema. Seriously, it’s brilliant. Frances McDormand has never been better, while Sam Rockwell may finally get nominated for his overdue first Academy Award. I’ll be raving about it very soon, so sit tight for that love letter before the month is out…
Honorable Mentions: 11/8/16, A Bad Moms Christmas, Daddy’s Home 2, Gilbert, LBJ, Mudbound, Murder on the Orient Express, The Star, Thelma, and Wonder

Be sure to check out these various films all throughout the month of November!
