Although I get on with my cousins, we don’t have much in common – but my mother can’t accept our decision

Fri 9 Feb 2018 07.00 EST


Last modified on Sun 11 Feb 2018 19.10 EST

I am 32, male and getting married in August. It’s not a massive wedding, about 70 close family and friends. We have decided it will be ‘no children’, which rules out inviting five of my younger cousins. However, we have also decided only to invite three of my adult cousins and their partners to the evening do. This is because we only see them at Christmas extended get-togethers and although it is perfectly amicable, we don’t have much in common. After telling my mother this, she was disappointed and tried talking me round into inviting them. Her arguments have been that they are my blood; she invited all her cousins to her wedding; we grew up together; we are cousins for life and my friends might not necessarily be. My reasoning is that all the other guests are people we get along with and who we see out of choice fairly regularly. I don’t want to feel obliged to invite people due solely to a blood link with them. What should we do?• When leaving a message on this page, please be sensitive to the fact that you are responding to a real person in the grip of a real-life dilemma, who wrote to Private Lives asking for help, and may well view your comments here. Please consider especially how your words or the tone of your message could be perceived by someone in this situation, and be aware that comments that appear to be disruptive or disrespectful to the individual concerned will be removed.• If you would like fellow readers to respond to a dilemma of yours, send us an outline of the situation of about 150 words. For advice from Pamela Stephenson Connolly on sexual matters, send us a brief description of your concerns.• All correspondence should reach us by Wednesday morning. Email: private.lives@theguardian.com (please don’t send attachments). Submissions are subject to our terms and conditions: see http://gu.com/letters-terms.