Many galleries have removed Close’s work – but one museum has turned his exhibition into a space for dialogue about how women should be treated
Nadja Sayej

Thu 15 Feb 2018 11.22 EST


Last modified on Thu 15 Feb 2018 11.34 EST

Chuck Close, an artist known for his photorealist portraits, has recently found himself at the centre of sexual misconduct and harassment allegations. Since December, several women have come forward, and museums across America have been taking down his art and cancelling his exhibitions. Others, like the Pennsylvania Academy of the Fine Arts, is leaving up its exhibition Chuck Close Photographs.The museum has added a new a group show of acclaimed female artists – including Barbara Kruger and Kara Walker – called The Art World We Want. It invites museum-goers to share their opinions by writing on Post-it notes and adding them to a timeline of art history, one with an undetermined future.“Some people say the show should come down, others say it should stay up; there is a whole range of opinions of what to do,” said Brooke Davis Anderson, director of Pafa. “We want to create a space that encourages a full dialogue.”It began in December, when three women came forward with claims of Close’s sexual misconduct. The artist allegedly invited them individually to his studio, where they were asked to strip nude and “audition” to be a candidate for a portrait. Close allegedly asked invasive questions about the women’s genitals. The New York Times reported the allegations of two women with the headline: “Chuck Close is Accused of Harassment. Should His Artwork Carry an Asterisk?”In response, Close said in a statement to the New York Times: “I never reduced anyone to tears, no one ever ran out of the place. If I embarrassed anyone or made them feel uncomfortable, I am truly sorry, I didn’t mean to. I acknowledge having a dirty mouth, but we’re all adults.”Four more women came forward with sexual harassment allegations, including one story of a woman who claims Close asked her to masturbate in front of him. Shortly after, performance artist Emma Sulkowicz staged a protest in the Metropolitan Museum of Art in New York, where she posed in front of Close’s paintings with asterisks drawn all over her body.In the wake of the allegations, Davis Anderson met the local community in Philadelphia – meetings with local faculty members, students, artists and curators – who talked about how to approach the new counterpart exhibition. “We wanted to respond to these allegations, despite hosting a Close exhibition on our walls,” she said.“One priority was to ask people visiting the museum what needs to happen to have the art world be more equitable and share more power,” said Davis Anderson. “An example could be to show more women artists, or have more museum directors who are female or people of color.”Alongside the artworks, the exhibition’s workshop component involves Post-it notes and an art history timeline, where guests can share their own thoughts of what needs to change in the future. The public’s responses will be archived by the museum’s education department and put to use for future programming. It’s an attempt to contribute to lasting change.“We wanted to make sure we didn’t just close the show. We wanted to deal with it,” said Davis Anderson. “We are collecting everyone’s responses in a report that will impact the decisions we make.”The exhibition has questions, which are painted on the walls above the artworks, which say: “Who has had the power to speak about women’s bodies?” and “Who do we need to hear more from?”It’s a different approach from the one taken by Seattle University. The school had one of Close’s paintings in their Lemieux library, which was removed swiftly after the sexual assault allegations surfaced in December. The decision to remove the painting was made by librarian Sarah Watstein, who replaced it with a painting by Linda Stojak. In Washington DC, the National Gallery of Art cancelled a Close exhibition scheduled to open in May. It has been postponed indefinitely.Cancelling an exhibition before it opens is different from leaving one up that’s already open. “I applaud the museum’s team to take the controversy surrounding Chuck Close as a prompt for open dialogue about women’s experiences with harassment and abusive power,” said Erin Pauwels, an art history professor at Temple University.“Removing the exhibition would have been an easy answer, but it also would have quickly silenced public debate over one of the most pressing questions facing art institutions today – how do we separate creative output from personal conduct, especially for artists whose work has long been honored, exhibited, and collected?”Pauwels says it’s time to change the long lineage of male artists mistreating women. “Art museums must take greater responsibility for contextualizing the artists and artwork they make visible,” she said, “which is what I believe Pafa is now attempting to do.”But not everyone agrees with the museum’s decision to keep Close’s show up alongside this new exhibition at Pafa.“In the era of #MeToo, when other institutions have cancelled Chuck Close exhibitions, Pafa should have also,” said Nina Ahmad, a congressional candidate in Philadelphia, and former president of the National Organization for Women’s local chapter. “They could have showcased the works of women artists without placing them next to a serial sexual harasser. If we’re going to get serious about gender equity in this country, everyone – including cultural institutions – must do their part and I’m sad that Pafa has made this decision.”Whether it is the works of Italian painter Agostino Tassi, who repeatedly raped his colleague Artemisia Gentileschi, and Paul Gauguin’s sexual abuse of pre-teen Tahitian girls in the late 19th century, the art world is no stranger to sexual violence, says Gwendolyn DuBois Shaw, an art professor at Penn.“It is terrible and horrifying museums [that] have rarely taken the initiative to engage these issues in their wall labels, catalogue essays, or public programming,” said DuBois Shaw. “While I would not advocate for the blanket censorship of the work of artists who are proven or accused sexual predators, murderers, or otherwise grotesquely anti-social, the Pafa museum is making a much-needed space for public dialogue, rather than shying away from such an important and difficult issue.”The museum may have not responded as swiftly as others, but some feel it could be breaking new ground. “Isn’t exploring new ways to engage in inclusive conversations what we want from our cultural institutions?” asks Ginger Rudolph, the editor of Haha magazine in Philadelphia.“Taking down the exhibition mid-show will not stop Chuck Close from being an important figure in contemporary art, but his art weight can be turned on its head – it can be used as a catalyst for constructive discussions exploring issues of gender and power.”