Despite a strong cast, including Gugu Mbatha-Raw, Christopher Walken, Steve Coogan and Kate McKinnon, this tragic romance never manages to connect
Benjamin Lee

Thu 15 Feb 2018 12.00 EST


Last modified on Thu 15 Feb 2018 12.06 EST

Boy meets girl. Boy falls in love with girl. Boy or girl gets ill. Boy or girl dies. We all cry, hopefully.The beats of the terminal romance movie have grown so familiar that there’s almost something quite comforting about watching someone slowly die in front of their other half. The regurgitation of cliches can often result in a genuinely affecting tale of unconditional love but more often that not it feels a tad too recycled, the heartstring-pulling coming off as heartlessly mechanical, the tears failing to flow as directed.In Irreplaceable You, we’re presented with recognizable plot elements but a framing device that suggests the journey through them might be more unusual than we expect. Abbie (Gugu Mbatha-Raw) is dead. She’s telling us this from beyond the grave as her fiance, Sam (Michiel Huisman), sets fresh flowers next to her headstone. They met when they were kids and became inseparable, moving in, planning a wedding and getting pregnant. Except what they thought was a baby is actually a cancerous tumor and within minutes their life together changes from a place of looking forward to a life together to one where they must imagine being apart. As an obsessive planner, Abbie tries to avoid coping with her sadness by arranging the structure of Sam’s life when she’s gone, including finding him a new partner.There’s something intriguingly audacious about the first scene, putting an immediate end to any speculation over whether Abbie might find a miracle cure and somehow survive (hey, it happened in (not) Dying Young!). There’s also a lingering starkness to the scene in which the couple finds out that her pregnancy is actually cancer, and it kicks off a featherlight form of gallows humor that runs through the script, accompanied by the frequently used question “too soon?” It’s all part of a clear strategy from the first-time screenwriter Bess Wohl, who seems aware of the genre pitfalls and tries to shake up the dusty formula we all know. Yet, ultimately, her attempts don’t stretch that far.This frank depiction of terminal illness has been employed with a sharper, smarter edge in other, better scripts from Wilbur Wants to Kill Himself to 50/50 to Sam Bain’s recent, wondrously dark sitcom Ill Behavior. There’s an uneven tone at play, as the film switches between a barely etched attempt to show the raw, unsentimental side of dealing with cancer and a suffocating gloss that reminds us of the construct we’re stuck in (every five to seven minutes, a character is filmed gazing at the New York skyline). This is particularly apparent in Abbie’s support group sessions. What’s most frustrating about these scenes is the casting. The director Stephanie Laing, whose credits as a producer include Veep and Eastbound & Down, has hooked three talented comedians to take part: Christopher Walken, Steve Coogan and Kate McKinnon, a comic trio that should on paper lead to something quite special. But their shared screen time is staggeringly lifeless. Coogan is playing the straight guy, stifled with an accent, McKinnon is stuck trading in laugh-free quirk while Walken, who also becomes Abbie’s unlikely confidante, just appears haunted by the bad films he keeps on making. Elsewhere, two-time Oscar nominee Jacki Weaver, Atlanta’s Brian Tyree Henry and the Emmy-winning Nurse Jackie star Merritt Wever are all wasted, the film squandering its astoundingly stacked cast at every turn. The characters that surround the pair come off as wacky ciphers, needed only for reactions and unsuccessful one-liners, no one ever feeling like a person in their own right.Mbatha-Raw tries admirably (her second time this month fighting against Netflix mediocrity after The Cloverfield Paradox) but is again let down by the film around her. She’s a skilled actor seriously in need of a better break (she’s suffered in a string of underwhelming flops including Miss Sloane, Free State of Jones and Concussion). While it’s initially refreshing in a film of this ilk to see a female character leading the way and taking control, Abbie soon turns into a cliched nag while Sam remains a comfortably hapless and artfully disheveled geek (a She’s All That-level miscast given Game of Thrones star Huisman’s hard-to-hide model good looks). One of the major problems here is a lack of investment in the couple at the centre. The film only gives us about 10 minutes to get to know them before they receive the bad news and, despite their relationship dominating the running time, we never quite fall for them nor care that much about their fate. As the plot starts edging into far-fetched incredulity with Abbie’s labored attempts to find a girlfriend for Sam, the sitcom nature starts to grate and the film drowns in its fatal flaws. By the end, Irreplaceable You could be replaced by pretty much any other terminal romance and it would be hard to notice the difference.