Chris Moon is selling his co-writing credit to 1976 Prince track Soft and Wet on eBay
Laura Snapes

Thu 15 Feb 2018 07.04 EST


Last modified on Thu 15 Feb 2018 07.06 EST

Very few songs by Prince are credited to anyone but the late Rogers Nelson himself – but one of his rare collaborators is giving fans the chance to buy his songwriting credit on Prince’s first solo single.In 1976, the Minneapolis producer Chris Moon helped Prince record his first demo tape, co-writing three of the four tracks including Soft and Wet. Moon is now selling his percentage of the Soft and Wet songwriting credits on eBay at a Buy It Now offer of $490,000 (approximately £348,000), the Minneapolis Star Tribune reports.Moon will legally transfer his rights and ownership of lyrics to the buyer, who will also receive the original contract signed between Moon and Prince recognising the former’s ownership of the song – plus a digital download of the song’s original version, album version and MC Hammer’s interpolation from 1990, She’s Soft and Wet.Titled “Co-own a Prince song with Prince!”, Moon’s eBay listing explained his reasons for selling: “I have enjoyed hearing the song countless times over the years, been paid well and am proud of it. I would now like to see someone else enjoy owning it, it has achieved everything and more for me so I feel it is time to pass the torch to a Prince fan who will continue to cherish and enjoy owning it as much as I have.”The producer was instrumental in Prince’s early success, sharing the tape with local businessman Owen Husney, who became Prince’s first manager. The recording attracted interest from labels, including Warner Bros, with whom Prince would ultimately sign.The buyer can’t expect to get rich from the sale: Soft and Wet only reached No 92 on the US Billboard charts. Moon told the Star Tribune that he made more money from MC Hammer’s version than the original: “Anyone who buys this probably shouldn’t be doing it for financial purposes. It’s more about owning one of the most unique collectibles ever related to Prince.”Moon also disclosed that he owns the rights to the only commercial jingle that Prince ever recorded, but declined to reveal the company or product it advertised. “People would be very amused by it,” he said.The sale provides a lighter note in the ongoing saga surrounding Prince’s estate. The singer died of an accidental drug overdose in April 2016 and left no will. In May 2017, a Minnesota judge ruled that his six siblings were the heirs to his estate. The estate has made what are seen as controversial decisions, including the uploading of Prince’s videos to YouTube, a website he tried to sue over copyright claims during his lifetime. In February 2017, the estate reached an agreement with Universal Music Group to sell the rights to his back catalogue, a deal that was rescinded by a judge last July after it was revealed that a previous estate administrator had misled UMG about the status of Prince’s pre-1996 recordings. In November 2017, three of Prince’s siblings filed papers requesting that the bank Comercia be removed as administrators of the musicians’s estate. A judge declined the motion.