The 2004 drama’s unsubtle look at race relations has critics drawing parallels with Three Billboards Outside Ebbing, Missouri. Will this year’s best picture nominee suffer the same fate as its forebear?
Guy Lodge

Thu 15 Feb 2018 06.15 EST


Last modified on Thu 15 Feb 2018 06.16 EST

You don’t hear this said a lot, but losing the best picture Oscar was the best thing that could ever have happened to Brokeback Mountain. Ang Lee’s elegiac, heart-splintering cowpoke romance was universally predicted to make history as the first overtly gay story to take the Academy’s top prize. Following months of critical adulation and endless preliminary prizes, it was all going swimmingly on the night until Jack Nicholson opened the best picture envelope and announced, with tellingly raised eyebrows, that the 2006 winner was ... Crash, Canadian journeyman Paul Haggis’s well-meaning, well-acted but clod-footed treatise on race relations in Los Angeles.As the industry’s collective gasp greeted the upset, Brokeback’s reputation was set in a second: it was the gorgeous trailblazer that Hollywood wasn’t quite ready to embrace. That distinction has more appealing cachet than “best picture winner” – an honour that places a critical target on even the most beloved film’s back.Crash, however, wasn’t the most beloved film going into the race. Critics were already sharply divided on its merits, with the venerable Roger Ebert leading the cheers (“a movie of intense fascination”), while others sneered – “full of heart but devoid of life”, “thumps along on square wheels” and “a toxic cloud of dramaturgical pixie dust” are among the choice barbs that greeted its release in the spring of 2005. Had it not won the Oscar, it probably would have shuffled off quietly to the archives, joining the sizeable club of turgidly worthy best picture nominees – from The Cider House Rules to Extremely Loud and Incredibly Close – that almost nobody has ever seen twice, mentioned only for occasional trivia value.In the wake of the Oscar win, however, its detractors rapidly increased in number and volume, their vitriol given added vehemence by lingering ill feeling over Brokeback Mountain’s loss. (It would take until last year, when Moonlight upset the apple cart to no less dramatic effect, for the debt to LGBT cinema to be paid.) Just as Driving Miss Daisy had been roundly ridiculed for winning in the year when Do the Right Thing wasn’t nominated, Crash swiftly became a byword for everything that was gauche, crass or conservative about the Academy. Even Haggis himself has discredited its win: “You shouldn’t ask me what the best film of the year was, because I wouldn’t be voting for Crash,” he admitted in a 2015 interview.But is Crash the “worst best picture winner ever”, as polls routinely crown it? Not really. Crash’s narrative strain (the shrill contrivance of its criss-crossing LA populated by just a dozen people) and stylistic naffness (it ends on a Stereophonics song, for Christ’s sake) were obvious to many well before the Academy weighed in. But the film’s sincere attempt to capture the abrasive discomfort of everyday American racial conflict makes it conceptually ambitious and tonally striking in ways many far duller Oscar favourites fail to match: the perspiring melodrama of Matt Dillon’s reformed racist cop rescuing his former victim Thandie Newton from blazing car wreckage may be absurd, but it’s a more vividly charged cinematic moment than anything in Cavalcade, Gandhi or – not to beat a dead, genteel horse – the aforementioned Driving Miss Daisy. If bad movies must occasionally win best picture, let them at least be bad movies with moxie.That’s not an allowance you’re likely to hear right now from the most aggressively impassioned critics of Golden Globe favourite and best picture Oscar hopeful Three Billboards Outside Ebbing, Missouri, some of whom are preemptively dubbing Martin McDonagh’s vicious, revenge-fuelled black comedy “this year’s Crash”. You can see the superficial parallels driving the comparison: like Haggis’s film, McDonagh’s is effectively a heightened morality play for contemporary America, fired by extreme, sometimes irrational, surges of anger and anguish on the part of its characters – and that’s before we get into the perceived (but debatable) redemption of a thuggish white supremacist policeman in each.That kind of harsh, jangly state-of-the-nation storytelling is never going to get everyone on side. You need only Google the film’s title alongside “racist” or “problematic” for a sample of the online takedowns and think pieces it has inspired, though none are more compelling than Wesley Morris’s for the New York Times, which dismissed the film’s provocations as empty posturing – “a cupcake rolled in glass”. He, too, raises the Crash comparison: Paul Haggis’s outwardly caustic but fondue-hearted message movie could be described in similar terms.McDonagh, unlike Haggis, hasn’t remotely capitulated to the criticism. His response to the backlash thus far has been to double down on the thorny intent of Three Billboards: “It’s a messy and difficult film because it’s a messy and difficult world,” he offered in an interview last week. He’s not wrong, even if his impressively impolite film makes a few iffy unforced errors: its use of black characters principally as story-enabling, agency-free pawns disappoints; its engagement with the heady subject of police brutality is merely glancing. I’ll still take it over any Haggis film: McDonagh’s writing has peppery zest, not just commendable interests, and Three Billboards’ best scenes bristle with discomfiting, fire-starting energy that feels close to the bone of a divided America in 2018. It would be far from an embarrassing best picture winner; in years to come, it could even seem one cannily attuned to its ugly moment in time. But not winning at all would be the greatest shot in the arm it could get.