Dozens of podcasts are being adapted into TV shows and movies, from true-crime to conversation-style, but will they lose some of their appeal in the process?
Jake Nevins

Wed 14 Feb 2018 06.30 EST


Last modified on Wed 14 Feb 2018 16.49 EST

The podcast and prestige TV booms have charted similarly ascendant paths in the last several years, so it makes sense that, with both bubbles almost at capacity, the two have melded into one. The result is the podcast-to-television pipeline, with many networks and streaming studios purchasing the rights to audio-based narratives already equipped with compelling stories, conveniently episodic formats, and dedicated fanbases that entertainment executives hope will follow their pods to screens. The pipeline starts flowing apace this month, with the premiere of HBO’s four-episode adaptation of 2 Dope Queens. Meanwhile, hit podcasts like Dirty John, Reply All, Welcome to Night Vale and Homecoming are all in various stages of development.While podcast adaptations aren’t exactly a new idea – Comedy Bang! Bang! made the switch back in 2012 – 2018 already appears to be a high point for the form. In late 2015, the Lego Movie directors Phil Lord and Chris Miller announced their plan to bring Serial, the beloved true-crime podcast from the This American Life producer Sarah Koenig, to television. Rather than translating the stories of Hae Min Lee and Adnan Syed or Bowe Bergdahl to screen, the two intended, with the help of Fox 21 Television Studios, to produce a show about the making of the Serial podcast. The project seems to be in production limbo, but many of the investigative podcasts that followed in its wake, such as Dirty John and Reply All, are already making their way through the pipeline.Dirty John, the serialized six-part Los Angeles Times podcast (which began as a series of features written by the reporter Christopher Goffard), was recently ordered by Bravo to be made into a true-crime series, a genre that’s seen a recent boost thanks to American Crime Story’s Versace- and OJ-centric seasons and Law & Order: True Crime, which retold the Menendez Murders in its first outing. Downloaded over 10m times, Dirty John tells the story of a scam artist named John Meehan, who meets a wealthy California woman named Debra Newell on a dating site and ensnares her and her children in a web of lies; it’s been optioned for two TV seasons, the first of which will be scripted by Alexandra Cunningham, whose credits include Desperate Housewives and Bates Motel.Reply All, the episodic Gimlet Media podcast, is also great fodder for the screen: the episode Man of the People, which told the story of a 20th-century quack scientist named John R Brinkley who fraudulently touted the medical benefits of transplanting goat testicles into humans, has been optioned by Annapurna Pictures, with Richard Linklater and Robert Downey Jr set to turn it into a movie.Informing all of these buys is the knowledge not just that podcasts are having a moment – a 2017 study by Edison Research estimated that 67m Americans listen to at least one monthly – but that certain podcasts in particular are ready-made for television, proven entities that bring with them sizable and enthusiastic followings. “We knew that listening to a four- or five-hour podcast would paint a more accurate picture of what a story could look like as a TV [show] or movie than a script would,” Hernan Lopez, the CEO of the LA-based podcast network Wondery, told the Hollywood Reporter last month.Wondery, with backing from 20th Century Fox, is just one of several audio media startups blossoming with the groundswell of public interest in podcasts. Another one is Gimlet, the Brooklyn-based podcasting network that hopes to be the “HBO of audio”. Besides Reply All, Gimlet also hosts Homecoming, a serialized psychological thriller featuring the voices of Catherine Keener, Oscar Isaac and David Schwimmer, and StartUp, a documentary-style series about Gimlet’s very inception. Both have already been reimagined as television series: Homecoming fetched a two-season order by Amazon Studios, with Julia Roberts and the Mr Robot director Sam Esmail attached, while StartUp will premiere as Alex, Inc, with Zach Braff in a starring role, on ABC in March.Gimlet’s foray into film and television has been so concerted that the company established Gimlet Pictures, a two-person offshoot headed by Chris Gilberti, who described to the Hollywood Reporter the company’s approach to adapting its podcasts. “In a lot of instances what you see is a land grab because it’s hot IP,” he said. “But in our case, we’ve been very judicious about what we’ve taken to market.”One reason the startup may be exercising restraint in sending its podcasts to screen is that it’s not yet known how lucrative or successful many of them will be when reimagined as television shows. Guiding the bull market is an assumption that a great story will hold up regardless of the platform hosting it, but one wonders if the intimacy of listeners’ relationships to their podcasts might be enfeebled when parlayed onto screen; with over 450 scripted series having aired in 2017, television could be dangerously close to congestion. And podcasts thrive in part because of the appeal of a reliable narrator, the docent guiding listeners on the subway, in the car, at the gym – pretty much anywhere one can safely pop in earbuds. Maintaining point of view, then, would seem crucial to pulling off the transition.2 Dope Queens, the WNYC radio show hosted by the former Daily Show correspondent Jessica Williams and the Brooklyn-based comic Phoebe Robinson, is a perfect example of such an interplay, despite being more of a casual tête-à-tête than a longform narrative like Serial, Dirty John and Homecoming. The four-episode HBO adaptation, in which a humble studio is replaced by Manhattan’s King’s Theatre, manages to retain all the charm of the original while capitalizing on the facelift, with guests like Jon Stewart and Sarah Jessica Parker joining the queens on stage.The salient difference, of course, is that the new 2 Dope Queens, unlike its podcast predecessor, is not best consumed in transit, but at home with a nightcap, the way one might watch John Oliver or Samantha Bee or Desus & Mero, Viceland’s adaptation of the comedians’ popular Bodega Boys podcast. Despite how little we know about how podcasts tend to fare as visual entities, the success of 2 Dope Queens, Desus & Mero, and Comedy Bang! Bang! suggests that relaxed, non-narrative, discussion-based programs can quite easily shape-shift into the late-night talkshow format. HBO seems to think so: the network has also announced plans to adapt Pod Save America, the political gabfest featuring three former Obama administration staffers.If one needed more confirmation that podcast stories are à la mode, Apple has gone in on a straight-to-series buy of Kathleen Barber’s novel Are You Sleeping, which tells the story of a homicide investigation that’s reopened thanks to a podcast, with Reese Witherspoon producing and Octavia Spencer set to star. The principle guiding all these acquisitions seems to be to strike while the iron’s hot: television is more democratic and less risk-averse than it’s ever been, and podcasts are presently a hotbed of the sort of gripping, anthologized storytelling that, at least on the surface, would seem readily adaptable to the screen. The relative success of these ventures, then, and the trend of adapting podcasts more generally, depends on whether the podcast boom owes itself to the form or to the stories therein. We’ll find out soon enough.