The comic’s first recorded special in 10 years is a sharp combination of social commentary and self-analysis deftly covering race, politics and relationships
Charles Bramesco

Wed 14 Feb 2018 10.38 EST


Last modified on Wed 14 Feb 2018 12.06 EST

In a comedy landscape with rapidly changing standards of taste, new stand-up specials from elder statesmen of taboo-poking humor arrive with a faint sense of queasiness. Whether they’ll break with propriety to challenge the status quo or jam their foot in their mouth is anyone’s guess, and Chris Rock likes keeping his audience in suspense. During his latest special Tamborine (and that’s not a typo), he comports himself like a man who knows his audience is hanging on his every incendiary word, even going so far as to tease with a “Yeah, I said it!” on two occasions.And yet the two moments in which he drops that boast – the first being a bit advocating for punching black sons to keep them humble, the second being a defense of Donald Trump’s presidency by suggesting it would lead to the coming of Jesus Christ just to bring about balance – are far from those most likely to raise eyebrows. Those keeping track of possible offenses can take their pick of the litter. After he swaggers onstage with a big smile and black T-shirt, the first joke out of Rock’s mouth goes, “You would think cops would occasionally shoot a white kid, just to make it look good.” He compares a state of desensitization in bed to “sexual autism,” throws in a pair of prison-rape one-liners, and endorses a staunchly pro-bullying personal philosophy. But this being Chris Rock, these jags of shock quickly reveal themselves to be in service of a loftier and more scathingly righteous point. His meditation on police in America is well-measured and true, acknowledging that a handful of bad apples are giving law enforcement a bad name, but only before arriving at the wise conclusion that “some professions don’t have room for bad apples”. Any generational differences between Chris Rock and younger viewership get pronounced in the extended riff on how the successful eradication of bullying in schools has made Americans soft. Again, Rock pivots this bold claim into the eminently reasonable suggestion that going through hardships early in life prepares a person for the challenges that will face them down the road. “Pressure,” he cracks, “makes diamonds”.He nonchalantly tosses off the metaphor as he wraps up a punch line, but Rock still evinces a clarity and maturity that audiences expect from a comic entering middle age. He’s been humbled and learned a few things about adulthood since the last time he picked up a microphone on camera. (For those keeping score, it’s the legend’s first recorded special since 2008’s Kill the Messenger.) His relationships are all morphing; at 53 years old and 10 years out from his last visit to church, Rock is searching for God and finding a frosty reception from the man upstairs. His two daughters have grown from kids to full-fledged people before his very eyes, and Rock jokes semi-uneasily about having readied them for the white man’s world by conditioning them not to trust white-colored items in their house, Pavlov-style. Even his understanding of himself is in flux, having been upended by an encounter with Rihanna that provided a painful reminder of just how old 53 sounds to someone who is 29.Rock, however, spends the most time and emotional bandwidth focused on his relationship with the woman he’s still learning to refer to as his ex-wife. In the greatest passage of the special, quite possibly one in a handful of his body of work’s defining bits, Rock speaks at length about the slow dissolution of his marriage and the acrimony of divorce. He spaces the zingers a bit farther apart, giving himself room to speak with unprecedented vulnerability and candor. He admits to cheating on three occasions, and that he didn’t play the role of supportive husband when his time came. There’s anger in these minutes, directed mostly inward, but the prevailing note is one of hopeful redemption.While Rock’s lingua franca has always been racial commentary, and there’s plenty in Tamborine to go around, he’s got the most to say about the politics of love. He doesn’t like the guy who slept around while touring, a man removed from the present Rock by a whole lot of spousal fights and one grueling custody hearing. He knows more now than he did then, chiefly that paying for everything doesn’t give a person the right to act like a cad. Things are dark, both for America and for a newly solo Rock, but he’s moving forward with the intention of being a better partner, father, and man. All grown up, Rock largely ditches his colorful profanity for what has ended up being the most distinctly adult work of his career. Just how good is he? He can singlehandedly spin a Tinder joke, modern comedy’s successor to airplane food, into a deeply moving pledge of fidelity, honesty, and responsibility.