
Martha Kelner in Jaén

Thu 15 Feb 2018 15.17 EST


Last modified on Thu 15 Feb 2018 18.40 EST

Chris Froome has admitted he will not target victory in his first race since a failed drug test last year became public knowledge but he insisted turmoil off the bike was not a factor in him being slightly below par.The 32-year-old was sweating and spluttering after crossing the finish line close to the mountain village of La Guardia de Jaén, where the beating sunshine made the brutal final ascent even more punishing. Froome’s seventh-place finish in effect ended any possibility of overall victory but Team Sky still held the leader’s jersey courtesy of a breakaway move by Wout Poels on the climb up Alto de Allanadas, the finale of the Ruta del Sol second stage.Froome celebrated with the Dutchman and claimed he had advised the team early on in the race to switch to their back-up plan and support Poels. “I called it pretty early and said to the guys: ‘Listen, I’m not feeling at my absolute best so let’s give it everything we’ve got for Wout,’” Froome said.In his last appearance at the Ruta del Sol in 2015, the climb up the Alto des Allanadas had been a major factor in Froome’s overall victory as he beat his nearest rival Alberto Contador by 29 seconds. But as he approached the summit on Thursday, Froome was left behind, finishing 27sec adrift of Poels.The small tents serving beer and tapas were bustling as fans cheered riders at the finish with no obvious animosity towards the Briton. It is the first time he has competed since the revelation he had returned an adverse finding from a drug test in September, a urine sample showing twice the permitted amount of the asthma drug salbutamol.Froome has spoken of the emotional toll the ongoing fight to clear his name has taken but, when asked if distractions off the bike had affected his performance in Spain, he said: “Not at all. I wasn’t necessarily expecting to come here and smash the whole race. We’ve got the leader’s jersey now for Wout and we’ll do everything we can to keep that leader’s jersey on his shoulders.“It was just as hard as I remember it was last time round, a really tough stage but an amazing result for Wout, and an amazing result for the team, I wasn’t feeling super but I think for my first race this season I’m pretty happy with being up there or thereabouts and definitely there’s a lot more to come. It’s an amazing atmosphere, the crowds out here are great and I love racing here.”Although Froome’s decision to continue to race while his anti-doping case lingers had caused some consternation, he spoke after the first stage about the overwhelming support of the peloton. But it has emerged not all the riders are unwavering in their support of the four-times Tour de France winner.Tony Martin, who rides for Team Katusha–Alpecin, was damning about his inclusion. “It’s super bad for cycling,” he said. “I absolutely do not understand why Team Sky came back with Froome when the case remains unclear. It’s a shame.”Philippe Gilbert, who represents Quick-Step Floors, subscribed to the same school of thought. “It’s hard to give a view on it,” he said. “But personally I think it’s a big mistake because there is still doubt hanging over him and out of respect for the other riders, he should refrain from racing.”