
Guardian sport and agencies

Thu 15 Feb 2018 09.20 EST


Last modified on Thu 15 Feb 2018 12.37 EST

The British International Olympic Committee member Adam Pengilly has been sent home from the Pyeongchang Winter Olympics following an altercation with a security guard.The IOC announced Pengilly’s departure on Thursday after the incident, reportedly outside a hotel.An IOC spokesperson said: “The IOC wishes to apologise for the behaviour of one of its members, and feels extremely sorry for the incident caused by Mr Adam Pengilly. Following an interview with the IOC ethics and compliance officer he will leave the Olympic Games and South Korea with immediate effect.“We would like to once again thank all the authorities and the police who are doing an excellent job and deserve all our thanks. Mr Pengilly has expressed his apologies to the security man involved. His mandate as an IOC member will expire on 25 February.”Pengilly, who competed for Britain in skeleton at the 2006 and 2010 Winter Games, apologised for his actions in an interview with insidethegames. “I tried to walk past a security guard when he told me to go the other way,” he said.“He blocked my path, came close to me, and asked to see my accreditation. I showed it and, when he came even closer to me, I asked to see his manager. He wouldn’t take me to his manager and asked to take a photograph of my accreditation. This went on for 30 seconds or so, and then I ran past him.“I heard him shout ‘stop’ but didn’t turn around or look back. I have since heard that he fell over and has evidently suffered scratches, but I did not hear him fall or shout out.“At no point did I touch him and, although I have been told that footage makes it look as if I pushed him, this was not the case and, if anything, he was coming towards me. This was my mistake and my error and I am sorry – I should have turned around and I also apologise for swearing.“I am sorry to the security guard. I have spoken about IOC members being held to a higher standard and I have let myself and others down. But, to reiterate, some are saying there was a fight or a scuffle – this was incorrect.”According to reports by the Yonhap news agency, South Korean organisers have now requested an apology from the IOC over the incident. “We know that Pengilly has expressed his apologies to the security guard and the local organising committee,” an official with the local organising committee said. “But since this is an incident that can’t be covered with just an apology, we’ve requested an apology from the IOC and are discussing measures that should be taken.”